2
User Manual
               B




   MODERN SOUND FOR YOUR CLASSIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
General Features........................... 2

PRECAUTIONS................................ 3

Accessories................................ 4

Radio Operation Instructions............... 5

System Settings............................ 7

USB Device Instructions.................... 16

Bluetooth® Device Instructions.............. 17

Troubleshooting............................ 18

Frequently Asked Questions................. 19

Specifications............................. 21

Warranty................................... 22

Purchase Notes............................. 23




              www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                        ◄ Table of Contents
General Features
Model: Motor 2B


 • AM/FM tuner with 30 presets and RDS (Radio Data System)

 • Selectable international tuner frequencies

 • Built-in MOSFET amplifier: 25 watts RMS / 45 watts Max x4
   channels

 • Patented InfiniMount Bracket System for maximum installation
   flexibility

 • Available with period-correct knobs and bezel for your vehicle

 • Separate power antenna and amplifier turn-on leads

 • 3 EQ presets plus user-controlled bass, mid-range, treble, fader,
   and balance adjustments

 • Selectable 32,000 color LCD illumination with user presets

 • Multi-channel pre-amp outputs (front, rear, subwoofer)

 • Rear-mounted USB port plays MP3, WMA and FLAC files

 • Built-in Bluetooth® for hands-free calling and audio streaming

 • Wireless audio browsing from your iPhone® or Android device

 • Made for iPod®/iPhone®

 • Non-volatile memory

 • 1 Year manufacturer warranty (see page 22)




                                                                              2

                     tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                               ◄ Table of Contents
    PRECAUTIONS
    PLEASE OBSERVE THESE PRECAUTIONS WHEN OPERATING
    THIS UNIT:

    This user’s manual does not cover the installation process. Please review
    the Installation and Assembly Manual included in your Radio Motor box
    carefully before attempting installation.

    Retro Manufacturing, LLC is not liable for any problems resulting
    from improper installation of the unit.

    If you have questions about installing your radio, visit our support website
    at help.retromanufacturing.com, contact us via email at tech@
    retromanufacturing.com or chat with us online.

      • This unit is designed for operation with a negative ground 12-volt
        DC battery system. Do not operate this unit with other battery
        systems, especially an 18-volt or 24-volt DC or a positive ground
        system. If you have a 6-volt system, you need to either convert to
        12-volt DC or purchase a separate inverter that will increase the
        voltage to 12-volts. NOTE: The inverter needs to be rated at 10
        amps or higher for the radio to operate properly.

      • This unit is not designed for a marine environment. Please do
        not use the unit where it will be exposed to moisture or excessive
        dust. Exposure to moisture will damage the unit and void your
        warranty.

      • Keep the volume of your radio at a level that allows you to hear
        outside noises, such as emergency sirens and train crossing
        warnings. Prolonged exposure to high volume levels may also
        result in hearing loss.




           The information enclosed in this user manual is a universal
           guide to assist you in your radio’s operation. Some features
           covered in this manual are not available in every model.
           This manual may be updated from time to time. Please
                    check our website for the latest updates:
                         www.retromanufacturing.com




3

                           www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                         ◄ Table of Contents
Accessories
Speakers
RetroSound® started in the speaker business and developed its radio
line to be perfectly matched with RetroSound® speakers. Together Retro-
Sound® radios and speakers produce the most accurate audio available
for your classic car.
                                               SHOP SPEAKERS



Amps & Subs
RetroSound® amplifiers and subwoofers are designed to work seamless-
ly with RetroSound® radios to fill in the low frequencies usually missing
from a classic vehicle’s sound system.
                                              SHOP AMPS & SUBS


Speaker Pods
RetroPod® speaker pods are great for classics that have no factory speak-
er locations. They mount to any flat surface and direct sound towards the
listener for a balanced mix. Paint or wrap them for a perfect match to the
interior of your classic vehicle.
                                             SHOP SPEAKER PODS



USB/AUX Extension Cable
The RetroSound® USB/Auxiliary extension cable is available in black or
chrome and features a 53” extension of both a USB input and a standard
3.5mm auxiliary input.
                                          USB/AUX EXTENSION CABLE




Antennas
RetroSound® offers OE-quality replacement antennas featuring chrome
plated brass masts that are almost impervious to the elements and pro-
vide an improved ground plane for enhanced AM/FM reception.
                                                   ANTENNAS




      RetroBelt® offers two-point, three-point, and four-point
      seat belt systems for classic cars and trucks and are
      available in a variety of colors and styles to update the
      safety in any vintage vehicle.

                    www.RetroBelt.com
                                                                               4

                      tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                                     ◄ Table of Contents
    Radio Operation Instructions
    Front Panel Controls
    These instructions are for all Radio Faces with 2 control shafts and push-
    buttons including: Dallas, Daytona, Denver, Detroit, Europa, Huntington,
    Monterey, Redondo-RS, RetroRadio, Wonder Bar I, and Wonder Bar III.
    For radios with alternate control layouts please see links at the bottom of
    this page.




                                            CLASSIC       LOCAL




                               5 Preset Buttons

              1 Left-Front Knob                       Right-Front Knob 3

      2 Left-Rear Knob                                            Right-Rear Knob 4




     IMPORTANT: Control Setup & Reset
     By default, RetroSound® Radio Motors are configured to function with the
     standard Radio Faces listed above. Some Radio Faces, like the Redondo-
     RT, require a different control mode.
     If you have mistakenly changed your Radio Motor to use a Radio Face
     that you do not have, follow the steps below to reboot and change
     control modes.
     With the vehicle's ignition on, press and hold the Left-Front Knob(1)
     for approximately 15 seconds to reboot the radio into the SEL PANEL
     menu. Once in the SEL PANEL menu, press and release the power
     button until the correct panel/control mode is displayed (select "Normal"
     for standard 2-shaft/push-button controls). Let the unit time out to
     accept the changes. The display will flash five times and reboot with the
     selected control mode activated.


                           Other Radio User Guides:
    Apache | Grand Prix | Redondo-RT | Newport | New York | Santa Cruz


5

                          www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                          ◄ Table of Contents
Radio Operation Instructions
Power On/Off
Press the Left-Front Knob(1) to turn the unit on. RETROSOUND will appear
on the screen. Press and hold the Left-Front Knob(1) to turn the unit off.
GOODBYE will appear on the screen to confirm that it has turned off.
Volume
Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) to adjust the volume between 0-46.

Mode
Rotate the Left-Rear Knob(2) clockwise to select from available listening
sources*: RADIO(AM/FM), USB, or BT Audio.

NOTE: The USB mode will not appear unless a USB device is plugged in.

The USB input is located at the back of the Radio Motor. The USB input
allow you to control your iPod®/iPhone®, play music from a portable device,
or play music from a flash drive. The USB cable must be routed to an acces-
sible area during installation to use the USB input. A USB extension cable
may be required for your vehicle.

Radio Tuning
Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) to tune to the next or previous AM/FM
frequency.

NOTE: When the radio is tuned to a strong FM station, the stereo indicator
will appear in the LCD’s upper right corner (two oval circles).

Radio Bands
Rotate the Right-Rear Knob(4) counter-clockwise to cycle through the five
radio bands (two AM and three FM).

Storing Radio Presets
There are six radio presets for each radio band. For presets one through
five, tune to the desired radio station and then press and hold the desired
Preset Button(5) to store the station into memory. To set the sixth preset,
rotate the Right-Rear Knob(4) clockwise and hold for 3 seconds to store.

Recalling Radio Presets
To recall radio presets, press the appropriate Preset Button(5) in the
selected radio band. To recall preset six, rotate the Right-Rear Knob(4)
clockwise and release it.

Mute/Pause
Press the Right-Front Knob(3) to mute/unmute or pause/play depending
on the source mode.


                                                                                6

                      tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                               ◄ Table of Contents
    System Settings
    System Settings
    The System Settings sub-menu enables access to the numerous addi-
    tional features of your RetroSound® radio. Press and hold the Right-Front
    Knob(3) for three seconds to access the sub-menu. Then rotate the Right-
    Front Knob(3) to cycle through the available sub-menu options. Once in a
    specific sub-menu, press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to change
    the options.

    Auto Seek/Manual
    This sub-menu toggles between Auto Seek or Manual tuning. In Auto
    Seek mode, the radio will tune to the next available station when tuning.

    To access the AUTO SEEK/MANUAL sub-menu, press and hold the
    Right-Front Knob(3) for three seconds, AUTO SEEK will be displayed.
    Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select between AUTO SEEK
    or MANUAL. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

    A Store
    This sub-menu activates A STORE which will automatically fill FM presets
    on all three FM bands, six presets each (eighteen total presets) with the
    strongest radio stations available in your area.

    To access the A STORE sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front
    Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until A STORE
    appears on the screen. Press the Right-Front Knob(3) to activate. This
    process can take up to one minute to complete. Once completed the radio
    will resume play.

    Local/Distant
    This sub-menu adjusts the sensitivity of the FM tuner. When listening to
    the FM tuner, selecting LOCAL will focus the tuner in the local area, mak-
    ing the signal stronger. Selecting DISTANT will broaden the signal and
    allow your local stations to be listened to at a greater distance when trav-
    eling.

    To access the LOCAL/DISTANT sub-menu, press and hold the Right-
    Front Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until LO-
    CAL/DISTANT appears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front
    Knob(3) to select the desired option. Once the desired setting is shown,
    let the unit time out to set.

    Clock
    This sub-menu sets the clock.

    To access the CLK sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
    three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until CLK appears on the
7

                           www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                           ◄ Table of Contents
System Settings
screen, then press the Right-Front Knob(3) to select. To adjust the hours,
rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) clockwise or counter-clockwise. Adjusting
past 12 will change between AM and PM. Once the hour is set, press the
Right-Front Knob(3) to select the minutes. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3)
to adjust the minutes, once the desired time is shown let the unit time out
to set.

Clock 12/24
This sub-menu changes the clock from a twelve-hour clock to a twenty-
four-hour clock. The default setting is for a twelve-hour clock (CLK 12).

To access the CLK 12/24 sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front
Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until CLK 12
appears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to se-
lect the desired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time
out to set.

Display Frequency/Clock
This sub-menu sets the screen to display either the radio station you’re
listening to, (DISP FREQ), or the current time (CLK).

To access the DISP sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3)
for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until DISP FREQ ap-
pears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select
either DISP FREQ or DISP CLK. Once the desired setting is shown, let
the unit time out to set.

Clock ON/OFF
This sub-menu sets the radio to display or hide the current time when
the radio is off. The default setting displays the time when the radio is off
(CLK ON).

To access the CLK ON/OFF sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front
Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until CLK ON
appears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to se-
lect the desired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time
out to set.

Beep On/Off
This sub-menu sets the audible beep confirmation that sounds during the
operation of the radio on or off. Select BEEP ON to hear the audible beep
or BEEP OFF to disable it.

To access the BEEP sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until BEEP appears on the


                                                                                 8

                       tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                                ◄ Table of Contents
    System Settings
    screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the desired
    option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

    Display Color
    This sub-menu changes the display color. The default setting is SCAN,
    which will cycle through all of the available colors.

    To access the display color sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front
    Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until SCAN ap-
    pears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select
    the desired color preset. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit
    time out to set.

    WARNING: Setting all RGB values to "00" will make the display
    unreadable. Resetting your radio will NOT reset the display.

    To create a custom color, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for three
    seconds to access the sub-menu system. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3)
    until SCAN (or current color) appears on the screen. Press and release the
    Right-Front Knob(3) until you see USER. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3)
    clockwise to access the RGB settings and press the Right-Front Knob(3)
    to select. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) to set a color value for RED, then
    press the Right-Front Knob(3) to move to the next color. Repeat the steps
    to adjust the values for each color. Once the desired color is set, press the
    Right-Front Knob(3) to accept the settings and let the unit time out to set.

    Dimmer High/Low
    This sub-menu sets the radio’s display brightness to high (DIMM HIGH),
    medium (DIMM MEDIUM), or low (DIMM LOW).

    To access the DIMMER sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3)
    for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until DIMMER appears
    on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the de-
    sired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

    RDS (Radio Data System)
    This sub-menu turns the RDS function on or off. RDS tuners can automat-
    ically tune in stations according to the music style (or talk) they broadcast.
    With the RDS function ON, and if the FM station you are listening to is
    broadcasting RDS information, the radio station call letters, song info, art-
    ist info, and other messages will appear on the display. Not all FM stations
    use RDS, nor will all RDS functions work in every location.

    To access the RDS sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
    three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until RDS appears on the
    screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to toggle RDS ON or
9

                           www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                            ◄ Table of Contents
System Settings
RDS OFF. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Program Type
This sub-menu allows you to select from 31 predefined program types (i.e.
News, Info, Sports). Once set, you will be able to use PTY SEEK to find
similar stations to your selected program type.

To access the PTY sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until PTY appears on the
screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to enter the list of pro-
gram types. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) to select between the avail-
able options. Once the desired program type is shown, press the Right-
Front Knob(3) to accept. PTY SEEK will appear on the screen, indicating
that the radio is searching the FM band for the next available station with
your selected program type. If none are found, the radio will revert to the
last station selected.

Alternative Frequency
This sub-menu enables the radio to automatically search for another fre-
quency that provides the same station when the signal gets weak.

To access the AF sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until AF ON/OFF appears
on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the de-
sired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Traffic Announcements
This sub-menu toggles the traffic announcements function on or off. The
traffic announcements function is part of the RDS and allows FM stations
to broadcast traffic announcements that scroll across the screen or audi-
ble traffic alerts to your radio.

To access the TA sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until TA ON/OFF appears
on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the de-
sired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Clock Time
This sub-menu toggles the clock time feature on or off. If the radio station
supports clock time, your radio will synchronize its clock with the radio
station’s clock.

To access the CT sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until CT ON/OFF appears
on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the de-
sired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

                                                                                  10

                       tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                                 ◄ Table of Contents
     System Settings
     Bluetooth® On/Off
     This sub-menu toggles Bluetooth® on or off. Bluetooth® must be enabled
     before you can connect a Bluetooth® device.

     To access the BT sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
     three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until BT ON/OFF appears
     on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the de-
     sired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Bluetooth® Connect/Disconnect (BT must be "ON")
     This sub-menu enables the radio to be discoverable on your Bluetooth®
     device. Choose BT CONNEC to allow your device to connect, and BT
     DISCON to disconnect Bluetooth® devices.

     To access the BT CONNEC/DISCON sub-menu, press and hold the
     Right-Front Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3)
     until BT CONNEC/DISCON appears on the screen. To connect a device,
     press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select BT CONNEC, then
     search for “RETROSOUND” in your phone’s Bluetooth® device list. Enter
     password “0000” if prompted. To disconnect a device, press and release
     the Right-Front Knob(3) to select BT DISCON, then let the unit time out to
     disconnect the current device.

     Area USA/EUR/AUS/JAP/RUS
     This sub-menu allows you to set your area to receive the appropriate
     broadcasts for your region. The default setting is the United States (USA).

     To access the AREA sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3)
     for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until AREA USA ap-
     pears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select
     the desired region (USA/EUR/AUS/JAP/RUS). Once the desired region is
     shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Volume Last/Adjust
     This sub-menu adjusts the volume level at which the radio will turn on.
     The default setting is VOL LAST, which means the radio turns on at the
     volume level at which the radio was turned off. VOL ADJUS allows you to
     preset the volume level at which the radio turns on from 0-46, regardless
     of the volume level at which the radio was turned off (see “Volume” on
     page 5).

     To access the VOL sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
     three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until VOL appears on the
     screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the desired
     option. If VOL ADJUS is selected, rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) clock-

11

                            www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                            ◄ Table of Contents
System Settings
wise (AD VAL is shown) and press the Right-Front Knob(3) to accept. Ro-
tate the Right-Front Knob(3) again to adjust the level between 0-46. Once
the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

SEL Panel
This sub-menu changes the operating mode between operation with two
knobs and push-buttons and operation for specialty faces with specific
control layouts.

To access the SEL PANEL sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front
Knob(3) for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until SEL PAN-
EL appears on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to
enter the panel choices. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) to select the de-
sired option. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

System Reset
This sub-menu resets the unit to factory settings.

To access the RESET sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3)
for three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until RESET appears
on the screen. Press and release the Right-Front Knob(3) to reset the unit
to factory settings. The unit will reset and turn off.

System Rescue
If you have mistakenly changed your Radio Motor to use a Radio Face/
Panel that you do not have, use the steps below to reboot the radio to SEL
PANEL mode.

Turn the ignition off and wait 30 seconds. Turn the ignition on; once the
radio boots up and RETROSOUND scrolls across the screen, press and
hold the radio’s power button for approximately 15 seconds to reboot the
radio into SEL PANEL mode. See the list below for the appropriate power
button for your radio type. Once SEL PANEL is displayed on the screen,
release the Power Button, then press and release the button until your
panel/display type is displayed. The Display will Flash your selection five
times and will turn off.

Radio Power Buttons:
 • Standard Knobs (shafts): Press and hold the left front knob.
 • Thumb Rollers: Press and hold left-inside thumb roller.
 • Grand Prix: Press and hold the ON/Off button.

Software Info
This sub-menu displays the unit’s software version.


                                                                                  12

                       tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                               ◄ Table of Contents
     System Settings
     To access the sub-menu, press and hold the Right-Front Knob(3) for
     three seconds. Rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) until the software version
     appears on the screen (there are no adjustable settings in this menu).

     Digital Signal Processor
     This sub-menu sets the Digital Signal Processor (DSP) Setting. The de-
     fault setting is off (DSP OFF). When activated, you are able to select one
     of three preset equalization settings:

       • CLASSIC: This setting offers subtle sonic adjustments that lend
         themselves to classical music.

       • POP: This setting accentuates bass and treble frequencies and is
         suitable for popular music.

       • ROCK: This setting accentuates treble frequencies and is suitable
         for rock music.

     To access the DSP sub-menu, press the Left-Front Knob(1) once, DSP
     OFF will be displayed. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clockwise to select
     from the available presets. Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit
     time out to set.

     NOTE: If using one of the preset DSP settings, any manual
     adjustments to Mid, Bass, or Treble will not save when the radio is
     powered off.

     Bass
     This sub-menu adjusts the radio’s bass levels.

     To access the BASS sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
     until BASS appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clock-
     wise or counter-clockwise to select the desired level. Once the desired
     setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Mid
     This sub-menu adjusts the radio’s mid levels.

     To access the MID sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
     until MID appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clockwise
     or counter-clockwise to select the desired level. Once the desired setting
     is shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Treble
     This sub-menu adjusts the radio’s treble levels.


13

                            www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                          ◄ Table of Contents
System Settings
To access the TREBLE sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front
Knob(1) until TREBLE appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front
Knob(1) clockwise or counter-clockwise to select the desired level. Once
the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Balance
This sub-menu adjusts the radio’s balance from left to right.

To access the BAL sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
until BAL appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clockwise
or counter-clockwise to select the desired level. Once the desired setting
is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Fader
This sub-menu adjusts the radio’s fader from front to back.

To access the FADER sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
until FADER appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clock-
wise or counter-clockwise to select the desired level. Once the desired
setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

XBASS
This sub-menu enables or disables the XBAS function. XBAS boosts the
low frequencies resulting in enhanced bass tones.

To access the XBAS sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
until XBAS appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clock-
wise or counter-clockwise to select the desired option. Once the desired
setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Subwoofer
This sub-menu toggles the subwoofer RCA output on or off.

To access the SUB sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
until SUB appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1) clockwise
or counter-clockwise to select the desired option. Once the desired set-
ting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

Subwoofer Volume
This sub-menu adjusts the subwoofer volume between 0-12 and will only
appear as an option when SUB ON is selected in the Subwoofer menu.

To access the SUB VOL sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front
Knob(1) until SUB VOL appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front
Knob(1) clockwise or counter-clockwise to select the desired setting.
Once the desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

                                                                                14

                      tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                           ◄ Table of Contents
     System Settings
     Subwoofer Frequency
     This sub-menu adjusts the frequency crossover point of the subwoofer
     between 80Hz, 120Hz, or 160Hz.

     To access the SUB sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
     until SUB 120H appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1)
     clockwise or counter-clockwise to select the desired setting. Once the
     desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Bass Frequency
     This sub-menu adjusts the bass tones’ frequency crossover point be-
     tween 60Hz, 80Hz, 100Hz, or 200Hz.

     To access the BAS sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
     until BAS 80H appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1)
     clockwise or counter-clockwise to select the desired setting. Once the
     desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Mid Frequency
     This sub-menu adjusts the mid-tones’ frequency crossover point between
     0.5KHz, 1.0KHz, 1.5KHz, or 2.5KHz.

     To access the MID sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
     until MID 1.0K appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1)
     clockwise or counter-clockwise to select the desired setting. Once the
     desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.

     Treble Frequency
     This sub-menu adjusts the treble tones’ frequency crossover point be-
     tween 0.5KHz, 10.0KHz, 12.5KHz, 15.0KHz, or 17.5KHz.

     To access the TRE sub-menu, press and release the Left-Front Knob(1)
     until TRE 10.0K appears on the screen. Rotate the Left-Front Knob(1)
     clockwise or counter-clockwise to select the desired setting. Once the
     desired setting is shown, let the unit time out to set.




15

                          www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                                                         ◄ Table of Contents
USB Device Instructions
USB Inputs
USB inputs are located at the rear of the Radio Motor. The USB cables
must be routed during installation to a convenient and accessible location
for connecting USB devices.

NOTE: The USB Mode will not appear in the menu unless a USB de-
vice is plugged in.

USB Device Connection
Connect your USB Flash Drive, iPod®/iPhone®, or other supported USB
devices to one of the USB inputs. The radio will display USB for three
seconds indicating the device has been connected successfully. After con-
necting a USB device, the radio will display the USB icon       on the
screen and automatically find your songs and begin playback.

USB Device Operation
The Preset Buttons(5) will enable you to play/pause, listen to 10 seconds
of each song (INTRO), randomly shuffle all songs (RDM), and navigate
folders.
                                                       USB Playback




                                                                    ROCK




                      Play/Pause     Intro   Shuffle   Pre Folder          Next Folder




          1 Left-Front Knob                                                 Right-Front Knob 3
  2 Left-Rear Knob                 5 Preset Buttons                                      Right-Rear Knob 4



  • To play or pause a song, press the First Preset Button.
  • To activate/deactivate intro mode, press the Second Preset Button.
  • To activate/deactivate shuffle mode, press the Third Preset Button.
  • To navigate to the previous folder, press the Fourth Preset Button.
  • To navigate to the next folder, press the Fifth Preset Button.
  • To switch to the next song, rotate the Right-Front Knob(3) clockwise.
  • To switch to the previous song, rotate the Right-Front Knob(3)
    counterclockwise.
  • To activate/deactivate repeat, rotate the Right-Rear Knob(4)
    clockwise.

                                                                                                               16

                         tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                                 ◄ Table of Contents
     Bluetooth® Device Instructions
     Bluetooth®
     When using a Bluetooth® device for the first time, you must enable Blue-
     tooth® and pair the device with the unit (see page 11). Be sure your phone
     is conncected for both calls and audio and that your microphone is en-
     abled.

     Making a Call

     To make a call, dial the desired number on the paired cell phone. Once di-
     aling is in progress; CALLING will appear on the screen. When a call is in
     progress, TALK will appear on the screen along with the elapsed call time
     (TALK 00:00). During a call, the radio music source will be muted, and the
     call audio will broadcast through your car’s speaker system.

     Answering a Call
     When a call is incoming, any audio playback from the current source will
     either be muted or paused (depending on the source). PHONE IN will be
     shown on the screen along with the caller ID if it is enabled by the phone/
     carrier. To accept the call, rotate the Left-Rear Knob(2) counterclockwise.
     To end the call, rotate the Left-Rear Knob(2) again counterclockwise.
                                                        Bluetooth Controls




                                                  POP




              1 Left-Front Knob                         Right-Front Knob 3
      2 Left-Rear Knob                                            Right-Rear Knob 4

     Streaming Music
     With a device paired, rotate the Left-Rear Knob(2) clockwise to select BT
     AUDIO. Next, select your desired playback source on your device (Apple
     Music ®, Spotify ®, Pandora®, YouTube Music ®, etc.) and play the music as
     you normally would.

     Browsing Music
     Some devices will allow you to browse folders and skip songs using the
     Right-Front Knob(3) and the Right-Rear Knob(4). To skip songs, rotate
     the Right-Front Knob(3). To browse music, rotate the Right-Rear Knob(4)
     counterclockwise to access the browsing sub-menu, then rotate the Right-
     Front Knob(3) to cycle through the options (artist, album, song, folder) and
     press the Right-Front Knob(3) to make your selection.

17

                             www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                         ◄ Table of Contents
Troubleshooting

     Problem           Possible Cause         Action to Solve Problem

                     Constant +12V           Check all connections for
                     (yellow) wire not       proper voltage with a volt
                     connected or incor-     meter. Voltage range: 12-
                     rect voltage            15 volts

                     +12V ignition/ac-       Check +12V
   Radio will        cessory (red) wire      accessory (red) wire
   not turn on       not connected or        connection and test
   (no lights,       incorrect voltage       voltage
   no sound)
                     Ground (black) wire     Check ground
                     not connected           connection

                     Fuse on constant
                     +12V (yellow) wire      Replace blown fuse
                     is blown
                     Volume turned
                                             Increase radio volume
                     all the way down

                                             Check speaker leads
   No sound          Internal amp in         for any grounded or
   heard from        protection mode         shorted wires or reset sys-
   unit but unit                             tem to factory defaults*
   lights up
                                             Make sure the unit is in
                     Wrong source mode
                                             the desired source mode
                     selected
                                             (RADIO,AUX)

                                             Make sure only fuses with
                     Possible short in       correct 15 amp ratings are
                     wiring or incorrect     used and check all wiring
   Unit blows        fuse used               connections for possible
   fuses                                     short

                     Battery hooked up       Make sure battery is prop-
                     backwards               erly connected


*System Reset
To restore/reset the unit to factory defaults see page 12.




                                                                               18

                     tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                                ◄ Table of Contents
     Frequently Asked Questions
     Do your radios work on 6 volt systems or on positive ground sys-
     tems?

     No. Our radios are 12 volt, negative ground only. After-market converters
     and inverters are available but must provide at least 10 amps of continuous
     output.

     I’m having problems getting the radio to turn on.

     RetroSound® radios require 12 volts to both power leads. The red lead
     (+12 volt accessory) goes to a switched power source, and the yellow to
     a constant +12 volt power source. Using a volt meter, check the voltage
     when the key is turned from “off” to “on”. If there is a significant drop in
     the voltage, the circuit to which you have the yellow lead attached cannot
     handle the additional draw of the radio. You will need to find another
     circuit that can handle the additional draw of the radio, or you will need to
     go directly to the battery.

     What speaker wire do you recommend I use?

     We recommend using 16 gauge wire for our speakers.

     I have all 4 speakers connected to your radio and the display is lit up
     like it is working, but there’s no sound coming out.

     This usually indicates one of two things:

       • Speaker wires touching each other or the vehicle chassis at some
         point. Check each speaker lead from radio to speaker.

       • Speaker impedance below 4 ohms. Older speakers are usually
         not compatible with modern electronics.

     My car originally came with a switch to control my automatic
     antenna. Can I use the RetroSound® radio’s remote antenna wire to
     control my antenna?

     No, you cannot. Your factory antenna is known as “semi-automatic.” It
     requires a switch to either extend or retract the antenna. You must retain
     this switch to control your antenna; the RetroSound® radio’s power
     antenna wire is for more modern “fully-automatic” antennas not requiring
     a separate switch.


19

                            www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                              ◄ Table of Contents
Frequently Asked Questions
The sound output is all mid-range, with very little bass and a
strangled-sounding upper range. What is wrong?

One of your speaker wires is connected backwards. This is called being
“out of phase.” Check to make sure positive is wired to positive and
negative to negative on all your speakers.

Will cutting or bending the InfiniMount Brackets void the warranty
or harm the unit?

No. The RetroSound® patented InfiniMount Bracket system has been
designed specifically to be bent, cut and modified to simplify radio
installation. Modifying the radio’s brackets is actually encouraged to
ensure proper fit.

If you have questions about modifying the brackets, contact us via email at
tech@retromanufacturing.com or visit help.retromanufacturing.com.

How much should I tighten the shaft nuts when installing the
brackets and mounting the radio to the dash?

DO NOT OVERTIGHTEN the shaft nuts. The shaft nuts are NOT the
only means of securing the radio to the dash. There is a backstrap
included which works with the shaft nuts to secure the radio to the dash.
Please note that overtightening the shaft nuts could break the shafts.
Retro Manufacturing, LLC will not be responsible for broken shafts due to
overtightening the shaft nuts.

I have your radio with an amplifier connected, but hear a whining/
buzzing sound through the speakers when I step on the accelerator.

If you have an external amplifier installed and experience a high-pitched
noise that varies with the engine’s RPM, there are many possible solu-
tions:

  • Make sure the amplifier’s gain controls are not turned all the way
    up. Amplifiers amplify everything, including noise.

  • Try grounding the amplifier near where it is installed.

  • Try a filter on the amplifier’s 12 volt power lead. Make sure to use
    a filter that includes a ground wire.

  • On rare occasions, noise can be introduced through the antenna lead.
    If disconnecting the antenna makes the noise go away, you need to
    replace or repair the antenna plug where it goes into the radio.

                                                                                    20

                      tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                                                             ◄ Table of Contents
     Specifications
     FM
     Tuning Range (USA/EUR/AUS/JAP/RUS tuning) wih RDS.............87.5-107.9MHz
     Antenna Terminal.......................................................External Antenna Connector
     Usable Sensitivity. .......................................................................................12.5dBf
     Selectivity...................................................................................... 75 dB @400kHz
     Signal to Noise Ratio..................................................62dB (Stereo), 67dB (Mono)
     Harmonic Distortion @ 1 kHz.....................................0.8% (Stereo), 0.5% (Mono)
     Separation. .........................................................................................32dB @1kHz
     Frequency Response..........................................................................30-16,000Hz


     AM
     Tuning Range (USA/EUR/AUS/JAP/RUS tuning). ............................ 530-1710kHz
     Antenna Terminal.......................................................External Antenna Connector


     General
     Dimensions (Radio Face)...................................................3.5”W x 1.5”H x 1.05”D
                  (dimensions will vary depending on model purchased)
     Dimensions (Radio Motor)............................................. 3.96”W x 1.98”H x 4.30”D
     Power Requirements. ............................................................................ 10.5-14.4V
     Current Consumption (during operation)................................................. Max. 15A
     Current Consumption (car off)................................................................... <3.5 mA
     Output Power (@14.4volts @4ohm @1% THD). .........25w x4 RMS / 45w x4 Max
     Output Impedance..........................................................................................4ohm
     Low Level Output (4 channels). ............................................................... 2.85 volts
     EROM. ...................................................................................Non-Volatile Memory
     USB Input............................................................................ 5v (USB female input)
     USB Charging.........................................................................................2.1A (total)


              NOTE: All specifications are subject to change without notice.




21

                                        www.retromanufacturing.com
                                                                        ◄ Table of Contents
Warranty
Your unit comes with a manufacturer's warranty covering any defects in materials and
workmanship. Retro Manufacturing, LLC (collectively referred to as "the warranter"),
at its option, will either (a) repair your unit with new or refurbished parts or (b) replace
it with a new or refurbished unit. The warranty period starts from the original purchase
date and is valid for the length of time indicated in the chart below. The decision to
repair or replace will be made by the warranter.
                    ITEM                                       WARRANTY

                  Motor 2B                                     One (1) Year

During the "Parts" warranty period, there will be no charge for parts. You must mail in your
unit during the warranty period at your expense. This warranty only applies to products
purchased directly from Retro Manufacturing or an authorized dealer. This warranty
is extended only to the original purchaser of a new product that was not sold "as is."
A purchase receipt or other proof of the original purchase date is required for warranty
service.

To handle a warranty issue go to www.retromanufacturing.com/returns-center
and fill out the Returns Form for a Return Authorization (RA) number. A RA number
must accompany all returns and warranty issues. Any product received without a RA
number will be refused.

LIMITED WARRANTY-LIMITS AND EXCLUSIONS

This warranty ONLY COVERS failures due to defects in materials and workmanship and
DOES NOT COVER normal wear and tear or cosmetic damage. The warranty ALSO
DOES NOT COVER damages that occurred during shipment, failures which are caused
by products not supplied by the warranter, failures that result from accident, misuse,
abuse, neglect, bug infestation, mishandling, misapplication, alteration, faulty installation,
set-up adjustment, maladjustment of consumer control, improper maintenance,
improper antenna, inadequate signal reception or pickup, power line surge, improper
voltage supply, lightning, modification, commercial use (such as use in hotels, offices,
restaurants, or other business uses) or rental use of the product, or service by anyone
other than Retro Manufacturing, LLC, or damage that is attributable to acts of God.

THERE ARE NO EXPRESS WARRANTIES EXCEPT AS LISTED UNDER
LIMITED WARRANTY. THE WARRANTER IS NOT LIABLE FOR INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS UNIT OR
ARISING OUT OF ANY BREACH OF THIS WARRANTY. (As examples, this excludes
damages for lost time, the cost of having someone remove or re-install an installed
unit if applicable, travel to and from the servicer, and loss of media, data, or other
memory contents. The items listed are not exclusive but are for illustration only.)
ALL EXPRESS AND IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING THE WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY, ARE LIMITED TO THE PERIOD OF THE LIMITED WARRANTY.

Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or consequential
damages or limitations on how long an implied warranty lasts, so the exclusions may
not apply to you. This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have
other rights which vary from state to state. If a problem with this unit develops during
or after the warranty period, you may contact your dealer or Retro Manufacturing, LLC.


                                                                                                 22

                             tech@retromanufacturing.com
                                                          ◄ Table of Contents
     Purchase Notes


     Record the place and date of purchase for future reference.


     Model No.



     Serial No.



     Purchase Date



     Purchased From


     Keep this information and your sales receipt in a safe place.




23

                          www.retromanufacturing.com
                              ◄ Table of Contents




                                                    24

tech@retromanufacturing.com
7470 Commercial Way | Henderson, NV 89011
       help.retromanufacturing.com


MODERN SOUND FOR YOUR CLASSIC


                RETROMANUFACTURING
  Published: 09/22/23 | ©2021 Retro Manufacturing, LLC




       www.retromanufacturing.c o m
