OPERATOR’S MANUAL
MANUEL D’UTILISATION
MANUAL DEL OPERADOR

26cc BLOWER/VACUUM
SOUFFLANTE /ASPIRATEUR
DE 26 cc
SOPLADORA /ASPIRADORA
DE 26 cc

To register your Homelite product, please visit:
http://register.homelite.com/

UT26HBV/ UT26HBVVNM/
UT26HBVEMC/
UT26HBVEMCVNM
NOTICE

Pour enregistrer votre produit de Homelite, s’il vous plaît
la visite : http://register.homelite.com/
Para registrar su producto de Homelite, por favor visita:
http://register.homelite.com/

AVIS

AVISO

Do not use E15 or E85 fuel in this product. It is a violation of federal law and will damage
the unit and void your warranty. Only use unleaded gasoline containing up to 10% ethanol.
Ne pas utiliser d’essence E15 ou E85 dans ce produit. Une telle utilisation représente une
violation de la loi fédérale et endommagera l’appareil et annulera la garantie. Utiliser seulement de l’essence sans plomb ne
contenant pas plus de 10 % d’éthanol.
No utilice combustibles E15 o E85 con este producto. Esto constituye una violación a la ley federal, dañará la unidad y anulará
la garantía. Utilice únicamente gasolina sin plomo que contiene hasta 10% de etanol.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

TABLE DES MATIÈRES

ÍNDICE DE CONTENIDO

 General Safety Rules............................ 2

 Règles de sécurité générales. .............. 2
 Règles de sécurité particulières. .......... 3
 Symboles..............................................4
 Caractéristiques. .................................. 5
 Assemblage.......................................5-6
 Utilisation...........................................6-9
 Entretien. .......................................10-11
 Dépannage. ........................................12
 Commande de pièces /
réparation. .......................... Páge arrière

 Reglas de seguridad generales............ 2

 Specific Safety Rules............................ 3
 Symbols................................................4
 Features................................................5
 Assembly...........................................5-6
 Operation...........................................7-9
 Maintenance..................................10-11
 Troubleshooting.................................. 12
 Parts Ordering/Service. ........ Back Page

 Reglas de seguridad específicas.......... 3
 Símbolos...............................................4
 Características...................................... 5
 Armado..............................................5-6
 Funcionamiento.................................7-9
 Mantenimiento...............................10-11
 Corrección de problemas................... 12
 Pedidos de piezas/
servicio. ........................... Pág. posterior

risk of injury, the user must read and
understand the operator’s manual before
using this product.

AVERTISSEMENT : Pour
réduire les risques de blessures,
l’utilisateur doit lire et veiller à bien
comprendre le manuel d’utilisation avant
d’employer ce produit.

ADVERTENCIA: Para reducir
el riesgo de lesiones, el usuario debe leer
y comprender el manual del operador
antes de usar este producto.

SAVE THIS MANUAL FOR
FUTURE REFERENCE

GUARDE ESTE MANUAL
PARA FUTURAS CONSULTAS

GUARDE ESTE MANUAL
PARA FUTURAS CONSULTAS

WARNING: To reduce the

See this fold-out section for all of the figures
­referenced in the operator’s manual.
Consulter l’encart à volets afin
d’examiner toutes les figures mentionnées
dans le manuel d’utilisation.
Consulte esta sección desplegable para
ver todas las figuras a las que se hace referencia
en el manual del operador.

i

Fig. 1
O
B
C
G

F
E
Q
A

D

N

H

S
M
P

R

L

K

T
J

I

A		- Lower vacuum tube (tube d’aspiration inférieur, tubo inferior de la
aspiradora)
B		- Shoulder strap (bandoulière, correa para el hombro)
C		- Cruise control lever/throttle lock (levier de régulateur de vitesse /
verrouillage d’accélération, palanca de control de crucero/seguro del
acelerador)
D-		 Upper vacuum tube (tube d’aspiration supérieur, tubo superior de la
aspiradora)
E		- Vacuum tube screw (vis de tube d’aspiration, tornillo de tubo de la
aspiradora)
F		- Vacuum bag (sac à débris, saco de la aspiradora)
G - Throttle trigger (gâchette d’accélérateur, gatillo del acelerador)
H		- Stop switch (commutateur d’arrêt, interruptor del apagado)
I - Vacuum handle (poignée d’aspirateur, mango de la aspiradora )
J		- Fuel cap (bouchon du réservoir, tapa del tanque de combustible)

K		- Starter grip and rope (poignée du lanceur et corde, mango del
arrancador y cuerda)
L		- Primer bulb (poire d’amorçage, bomba de cebado)
M - Choke lever (levier de volet de départ, palanca del anegador)
N		- Upper handle (poignée supérieure, mango superior)
O		- Vacuum bag adaptor (adaptateur de sac à débris, adaptador del
saco de la aspiradora)
P		- Muffler (silencieux, silenciador)
Q		- Raised slot (fente en saillie, ranura realzada)
R		- Upper blower tube (tube supérieur de soufflante, tubo superior de
la sopladora)
S		- Sweeper nozzle (embout éventail, boquilla para barrer)
T		
- High velocity nozzle (embout haute vélocité, boquilla de alta
velocidad opcional)

ii

Fig. 2

Fig. 6

A

Fig. 8

A

A - Flat head screwdriver (tournevis à lame
plate, destornillador de punta plana)

Fig. 3

B

A

A
C

D

B

C

A		- Sweeper nozzle (embout éventail, boquilla
para barrer)
B - Upper blower tube (tube de soufflante
supérieur, tubo superior de la sopladora)
C - Blower housing outlet (sortie du logement
de la soufflante, salida del armazón de la
sopladora)
D		- High velocity nozzle (embout haute vélocité,
boquilla de alta velocidad)

Fig. 4

A		- Adaptor installed in vacuum bag (adaptateur
installé dans le sac à débris, adaptador
instalado en el saco de la aspiradora)
B		- Raised locking tab (languette de verrouillage
en saillie, orejeta realzada de aseguramiento)
C		- Raised slot (fente en saillie, ranura realzada)

Fig. 7
C

A

B
B

C

E

D

C

B

A		- Vacuum tube assembly (ensemble de tubes
d’aspiration, conjunto de los tubos de la
aspiradora)
B		- Vacuum inlet door (volet d’entrée d’air,
puerta de la entrada de la aspiradora)
C		- Screw (vis, tornillo)
D - Vacuum opening (ouverture d’aspiration,
abertura de aspiración)
E		- Screw mount (trous de vis, agujeros de
tornillos)

Fig. 9

A

A
B

A - Upper blower tube (tube de soufflante
supérieur, tubo superior de la sopladora)
B - Sweeper nozzle (embout éventail, boquilla
para barrer)
C		- High velocity nozzle (embout haute vélocité,
boquilla de alta velocidad)

Fig. 5

E
D

B

A
D

A		- Vacuum bag adaptor (adaptateur de sac à
débris, adaptador del saco de la aspiradora)
B		- Vacuum bag (sac à débris, saco de la
aspiradora)

A		- Vacuum bag assembly (ensemble de sac à
débris, conjunto del saco de la aspiradora)
B		- Vacuum inlet door (volet d’entrée d’air,
puerta de la entrada de la aspiradora)
C		- Door tab (languette du volet, orejeta de la
puerta)
D		- Tab (languette, orejeta)

iii

C
A - Stop switch (commutateur d’arrêt,
interruptor del apagado)
B		- Throttle trigger (gâchette d’accélérateur,
gatillo del acelerador)
C - Cruise control lever/throttle lock (levier
de régulateur de vitesse / verrouillage
d’accélération, palanca de control de
crucero/seguro del acelerador)
D		- Primer bulb (poire d’amorçage, bomba de
cebado)
E - Starter grip and rope (poignée du lanceur et
corde, mango del arrancador y cuerda)

Fig. 12

Fig. 10

Fig. 14

A

PROPER BLOWER OPERATING POSITION

B

POSITION D’UTILISATION ADÉQUATE
DE LA SOUFFLANTE
POSICIÓN DE FUNCIONAMIENTO
CORRECTA DE LA SOPLADORA

B
A

A		- Cruise control lever (levier de régulateur de
vitesse, palanca de control de crucero)
B		- Throttle trigger (gâchette d’accélérateur,
gatillo del acelerador)

A		- Turn the dial to open and close (tourner
le cadran pour ouvrir et fermeture, gire el
selector para abrirla y cerrar )
B		- Air filter cover (couvercle du filtre à air, tapa
de la cámara de ventilación)

Fig. 15

Fig. 13
PROPER VACUUM
OPERATING POSITION

B

POSITION D’UTILISATION ADÉQUATE
DE L’ASPIRATEUR
POSICIÓN DE FUNCIONAMIENTO
CORRECTA DE LA ASPIRADORA

Fig. 11

A
A

A
A		- Air filter cover (couvercle du filtre à air,
cámara del filtro de aire)
B - Air filter (filtre à air, filtro de aire)

B

A - Sweeper nozzle (embout éventail, boquilla
para barrer)
B		- High velocity nozzle (embout haute vélocité,
boquilla de alta velocidad)

A - Keep muffler away from the body (garder les
mains à l’écart des silencieux, mantenga el
silenciador alejado del cuerpo)

iv

GENERAL SAFETY RULES
 Before storing, allow the engine to cool.

WARNING:
READ AND UNDERSTAND ALL INSTRUCTIONS. Failure to follow all instructions listed below may result in
electric shock, fire and/or serious personal injury.

READ ALL INSTRUCTIONS

 Empty fuel tank into a container approved for gasoline
and restrain the unit from moving before transporting in
a vehicle.
 To reduce the risk of fire and burn injury, handle fuel with
care. It is highly flammable.
 Do not smoke while handling fuel.

 Do not allow children or untrained individuals to use this
unit.
 Do not start or operate the engine in a confined space,
building, near open windows, or in other unventilated
space where dangerous carbon monoxide fumes can
collect. Carbon monoxide, a colorless, odorless, and
extremely dangerous gas, can cause unconsciousness
or death.

 Mix and store fuel in a container approved for gasoline.
 Mix fuel outdoors where there are no sparks or flames.
 Select bare ground, stop engine, and allow to cool before
refueling.
 Loosen fuel cap slowly to release pressure and to keep
fuel from escaping around the cap.
 Tighten the fuel cap securely after refueling.

 Always wear eye protection with side shields marked to
comply with ANSI Z87.1 along with hearing protection.
Failure to do so could result in objects being thrown into
your eyes and other possible serious injuries.

 Wipe spilled fuel from the unit. Move 30 ft. away from
refueling site before starting engine.

 Keep all bystanders, children, and pets at least 50 ft.
away.

 Use only recommended or equivalent manufacturer’s
replacement parts and accessories. Use of any other
parts may create a hazard or cause product damage.

 Wear heavy long pants, long sleeves, boots, and gloves.
Do not wear loose fitting clothing, short pants, sandals,
jewelry of any kind, or go barefoot.
 To reduce the risk of injury associated with objects being
drawn into rotating parts, do not wear loose clothing,
scarves, neck chains, and the like.
 Secure long hair so it is above shoulder level to prevent
entanglement in any rotating parts.
 Do not operate this unit when you are tired, ill, upset, or
under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or medication.
 Do not operate in poor lighting.
 Keep all parts of your body away from any moving parts
and all hot surfaces of the unit.
 Wear a face filter mask in dusty conditions to reduce the
risk of injury associated with the inhalation of dust.
 Check the work area before each use. Remove all objects
such as rocks, broken glass, nails, wire, or string which
can be thrown or become entangled in the machine.

 Never attempt to burn off spilled fuel under any
circumstances.

 Maintain the unit per maintenance instructions in this
Operator’s Manual.
 Inspect the unit before each use for loose fasteners, fuel
leaks, etc. Replace damaged parts.
 Do not use on a ladder, rooftop, tree, or other unstable
support. Stable footing on a solid surface enables better
control of the blower in unexpected situations.
 Before cleaning, repairing, or inspecting, shut off the
engine and make certain all moving parts have stopped.
Disconnect the spark plug wire, and keep the wire away
from the plug to prevent starting.
 We recommend taking your equipment to a qualified
service center for repair, as service performed by inexperienced or unqualified persons may damage the
equipment, create unsafe conditions, injury to user and/
or void your warranty.

 Keep firm footing and balance. Do not overreach.
Overreaching can result in loss of balance or exposure
to hot surfaces.

Page 2 — English

SPECIFIC SAFETY RULES
 Always hold the blower/vacuum in your right hand during
blower operation. Refer to the Operation instructions later
in this manual for proper position during vacuum operation and additional information.
 Never place objects inside the blower tubes.
 Use only as directed in this operator’s manual.
 Do not operate vacuum without vacuum bag installed;
flying debris could cause serious injury. Always close
vacuum bag completely before operating.
 Rotating impeller blades can cause severe injury. Stop
the engine and ensure impeller blades have stopped
rotating before opening the vacuum door or installing/
changing tubes. Do not put hands or any other object
into the vacuum tubes while they are installed on the unit.
 Never run the unit without the proper equipment attached.
When used as a blower, always install the blower tubes.
When used as a vacuum, always install the vacuum
tubes and vacuum bag. Make sure the vacuum bag is
completely zipped when the unit is running to avoid flying
debris.
 Avoid situations that could catch the vacuum bag on
fire. Do not operate near an open flame. Do not vacuum
warm ash from fireplaces, barbecue pits, brush piles, etc.
Do not vacuum discarded cigars or cigarettes unless the
cinders are completely cool.

FUELING
 Fuel is highly flammable. Take precautions when using
to reduce the chance of serious personal injury.
 Store fuel in a cool, well-ventilated area, safely away from
spark and/or flame-producing equipment.
 Store fuel in containers specifically designed for this
purpose.
 Only refuel outdoors and do not smoke while ­refueling.
 Add fuel before starting the engine. Never remove the cap
of the fuel tank or add fuel while the engine is running or
when the engine is hot.
 Do not smoke while handling fuel.
 Mix and store fuel in a container approved for gasoline.
 Mix fuel outdoors where there are no sparks or flames.
 Loosen fuel cap slowly to release pressure and to keep
fuel from escaping around the cap.
 Tighten the fuel cap securely after refueling.
 Wipe spilled fuel from the unit. Move 30 feet away from
refueling site before starting engine.
 Never attempt to burn off spilled fuel under any circumstances.
 To reduce the risk of fire and burn injury, handle fuel with
care. It is highly flammable.

 Never place blower on any surface, except a hard, clean
surface when engine is running. Gravel, sand, and other
debris can be picked up by the air inlet and thrown at the
operator or bystanders, causing possible serious injuries.

 If fuel is spilled, do not attempt to start the engine but
move the machine away from the area of spillage and
avoid creating any source of ignition until fuel vapors
have dissipated.

 To reduce the risk of hearing loss associated with sound
level(s), hearing protection is required.

 Replace all fuel tank and container caps securely.

 To reduce the risk of injury associated with contacting
rotating parts, stop the engine before installing or
removing attachments. Always disconnect the spark plug
before performing maintenance or accessing any movable
parts.
 Never use blower near fires, fireplaces, hot ashes,
barbecue pits, etc., which may cause fire to spread.
 Do not point the blower nozzle in the direction of people
or pets.

 Empty fuel tank into a container approved for gasoline
and restrain the unit from moving before transporting in
a vehicle.
 When draining the fuel tank, use an approved fuel storage
container in a well-ventilated area.
 Select bare ground, stop engine, and allow to cool before
refueling.
 Save these instructions. Refer to them frequently and use
them to instruct others who may use this tool. If you loan
someone this tool, loan them these instructions also.

 This product is intended for infrequent use by homeowners and other occasional users for such general applications as blowing leaves and lawn clippings, etc. It is not
intended for prolonged use. Prolonged periods of operation can cause circulatory problems in the user’s hands
due to vibration. For such use, it may be appropriate to
use a product having an anti-vibration feature.

Page 3 — English

SYMBOLS
The following signal words and meanings are intended to explain the levels of risk associated with this product.

SYMBOL

SIGNAL

MEANING

DANGER:

Indicates a hazardous situation, which, if not avoided, will result in death or
serious injury.

WARNING:

Indicate a hazardous situation, which, if not avoided, could result in death or
serious injury.

CAUTION:

Indicates a hazardous situation, that, if not avoided, may result in minor or
moderate injury.

NOTICE:

(Without Safety Alert Symbol) Indicates information considered important, but
not related to a potential injury (e.g. messages relating to property damage).

Some of the following symbols may be used on this product. Please study them and learn their meaning. Proper
interpretation of these symbols will allow you to operate the product better and safer.

SYMBOL

NAME

EXPLANATION

Safety Alert Symbol

Indicates a potential personal injury hazard.

Read Operator’s Manual

To reduce the risk of injury, user must read and understand
operator’s manual before using this product.

Eye and Hearing Protection

Always wear eye protection with side shields marked to
comply with ANSI Z87.1 as well as hearing protection when
operating this equipment.

Keep Bystanders Away

Keep all bystanders at least 50 ft. away.

Ricochet

Thrown objects can ricochet and result in personal injury or
property damage.

Vacuum Door

Do not run unit while vacuum door is unsecured.

Long Hair

Risk of long hair being drawn into air inlet.

Blower Tubes

Do not run unit without tubes in place.

Loose Clothing

Risk of loose clothing being drawn into air intake.

Gasoline and Lubricant

Use unleaded gasoline intended for motor vehicle use with
an octane rating of 87 [(R + M) / 2] or higher. This product is
powered by a 2-cycle engine and requires pre-mixing gasoline
and 2-cycle lubricant.
Page 4 — English

FEATURES
PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS
Engine Displacement.......................................................................................................................................................26cc
Sweeper Nozzle

Blowing Performance (at Nozzle Outlet):

High Velocity Nozzle

*MPH. ...................................................................................... 150. .............................................................200
*CFM........................................................................................ 400. .............................................................150
*Rated per ANSI B175.2

KNOW YOUR BLOWER/VACUUM
See Figure 1.
The safe use of this product requires an understanding of
the information on the tool and in this operator’s manual as
well as a knowledge of the project you are attempting. Before
use of this product, familiarize yourself with all operating
features and safety rules.

BLOWER TUBE AND SWEEPER NOZZLE
The blower tube and sweeper nozzle can be assembled and
installed on the blower without using any tools.

CRUISE CONTROL LEVER/THROTTLE LOCK
The cruise control lever/throttle lock feature allows the user
to operate the blower without holding the throttle trigger.
To slow the engine, simply push the cruise control lever/
throttle lock forward.

ENGINE
The blower has a powerful 26cc engine with sufficient power
to handle tough blowing and vacuuming jobs.

HIGH VELOCITY NOZZLE
The high velocity nozzle is great for wet sticky leaves. It allows you to scrape wet leaves or debris from hard surfaces
while operating the blower.

SWEEPER NOZZLE
The sweeper nozzle allows for more area to be covered
during blower operation, making it more effective on larger
piles of leaves and debris.

THROTTLE TRIGGER
The blower can be operated at any speed between idle and
full throttle.

VACUUM/MULCHER
Converting the blower to a vacuum/mulcher is simple and
can be done using a flat head screwdriver.

VACUUM BAG
The vacuum bag attaches to the blower easily by using the
vacuum bag adaptor.

VACUUM HANDLE
This feature allows user to perform vacuuming duties
­comfortably.

VACUUM TUBES
The vacuum tubes can be installed on the blower using a
flat head screwdriver.

ASSEMBLY
UNPACKING
This product requires assembly.
 Carefully remove the product and any accessories from
the box. Make sure that all items listed in the packing list
are included.

WARNING:

 Inspect the product carefully to make sure no breakage
or damage occurred during shipping.
 Do not discard the packing material until you have carefully inspected and satisfactorily operated the product.
 If any parts are damaged or missing, please call
1-800-242-4672 for assistance.

PACKING LIST

Do not use this product if any parts in the Packing List
are already assembled to your product when you unpack
it. Parts on this list are not assembled to the product by
the manufacturer and require customer installation. Use
of a product that may have been improperly assembled
could result in serious personal injury.

Blower
Upper Blower Tube
Sweeper Nozzle
High Velocity Nozzle
Upper and Lower Vacuum Tubes
Vacuum Tube Screws (2)
Vacuum Bag
Vacuum Bag Adaptor

Page 5 — English

ASSEMBLY
PACKING LIST (continued)
2-Cycle Engine Lubricant
Operator’s Manual
NOTE: Read and remove all hang tags and store with your
Operator’s Manual.

WARNING:
If any parts are damaged or missing do not operate this
product until the parts are replaced. Use of the product
with damaged or missing parts could result in possible
serious personal injury.

WARNING:
Do not attempt to modify this product or create accessories not recommended for use with this product. Any
such alteration or modification is misuse and could result
in a hazardous condition leading to possible serious
personal injury.

 To remove the tubes, use a flat head screwdriver to lift the
locking tab, rotate the tubes to unlock them and remove
from the blower housing outlet.

INSTALLING THE VACUUM BAG

See Figures 5 - 6.
 Remove the nozzle and upper blower tube from the
blower by using a flat head screwdriver to lift the locking
tab, twisting and removing from blower housing outlet.
 Unzip the vacuum bag and push the vacuum bag adaptor
through the opening opposite the zipper as shown. The
wider end of the adaptor will remain on the inside of the
vacuum bag when installed properly.
 Align the raised slots on the vacuum bag adaptor with the
raised locking tabs on the blower housing outlet. Push
the vacuum bag adaptor onto the housing and twist to
lock into place.
 Rotate the vacuum bag until the shoulder strap is upright.
 Make sure the vacuum bag is zipped and closed before
starting the unit.

INSTALLING THE VACUUM TUBES
See Figures 7 - 8.

WARNING:
To prevent accidental starting that could cause serious
personal injury, always disconnect the engine spark plug
wire from the spark plug when assembling parts.

TOOLS NEEDED

See Figure 2.
The following tool (not included or drawn to scale) is needed
for assembly:
 Flat Head Screwdriver

ASSEMBLING THE BLOWER TUBES

See Figures 3 - 4.
 Align raised tabs on blower housing outlet to the slots on
upper blower tube; slide together and tighten securely by
twisting until the tubes snap into the locked position and
the lock symbols are aligned. Check tightness after initial
use and retighten if needed.

NOTICE:
When correctly assembled, the tubes are difficult to separate. If they can easily be twisted apart, the tubes are not
locked. Continue twisting together until the tubes snap
into the locked position. Tubes that are not fully locked
together can separate during blower operation.
 Attach sweeper nozzle to upper blower tube by aligning
raised tabs on upper blower tube; slide together and
tighten securely by twisting. Check tightness after initial
use and retighten if needed.
 If high velocity nozzle use is desired, attach to sweeper
nozzle by aligning raised tab on high velocity nozzle with
slot on sweeper nozzle.

WARNING:
Contact with rotating impeller blades could result in serious personal injury. Always stop the engine and ensure
impeller blades have stopped rotating before opening
the vacuum door or installing/changing tubes. Do not put
hands or any other object into the vacuum tubes while
they are installed on the unit.
To install the vacuum tubes:
 Secure the upper and lower vacuum tubes together by
aligning the raised locking tabs with the raised slots.
 Tap tube assembly on ground until the screw holes in
lower tube are in the raised slot of the upper tube. Secure
with supplied screws.
 Depress door tab using a flathead screwdriver and open
vacuum inlet door.
 Align screw mounts on vacuum opening with screws on
vacuum tube assembly.
 Turning clockwise, tighten screws on upper vacuum tube
to secure to blower housing.
To remove the vacuum tubes:
 Loosen screws of the upper vacuum tube by turning
counterclockwise.
 Remove the vacuum tube assembly from the blower
housing.
 Close the vacuum inlet cover door securely.
 Remove the vacuum bag by using a flat head screwdriver
to lift the locking tab, rotate to unlock the adaptor and
remove.

Page 6 — English

OPERATION
APPLICATIONS

WARNING:
Do not allow familiarity with this product to make you
careless. Remember that a careless fraction of a second is
sufficient to inflict serious injury.

You may use this product for the purposes listed below:
 Clearing leaves and other debris from your lawn
 Keeping decks and driveways free from leaves and other
forms of debris
 Vacuuming leaves from your lawn

WARNING:
Always wear eye protection with side shields marked to
comply with ANSI Z87.1, along with hearing protection.
Failure to do so could result in objects being thrown into
your eyes and other possible serious injuries.

WARNING:
Do not use any attachments or accessories not recommended by the manufacturer of this product. The use of
attachments or accessories not recommended can result
in serious personal injury.

ETHANOL-BLENDED FUELS
NOTICE:
Do not use E15 or E85 fuel in this product. It is a violation of federal law and will damage the unit and void
your warranty. Only use unleaded gasoline containing
up to 10% ethanol.
NOTE: To improve performance when using oxygenated
fuels, we recommend the use of Ethanol Shield 2-cycle
lubricant.

FUELING AND REFUELING
WARNING:

WARNING:
Verify that all guards and tubes are in place prior to use.
If the blower is dropped, stop blower and verify that
no damage has occurred. If any guard, part, or tube is
damaged or missing, do not use blower until it has been
repaired or replaced by a qualified service center. Use of
blower with damaged or missing guards, parts, or tubes
can result in serious personal injury or further damage
to the blower.

NOTICE:
The spark arrestor on this product has not been evaluated by the USDA Forest Service and cannot be used on
U.S. forest lands. In addition, product users must comply
with Federal, State, and local fire prevention regulations.
Check with appropriate authorities. Contact customer
service or a qualified service center to purchase a replacement spark arrestor.

NOTICE:
Before each use, inspect the entire product for damaged,
missing, or loose parts such as screws, nuts, bolts, caps,
etc. Tighten securely all fasteners and caps and do not
operate this product until all missing or damaged parts are
replaced. Please contact customer service or a qualified
service center for assistance.

Gasoline and its vapors are highly flammable and explosive. To prevent serious personal injury and property
damage, handle it with care. Keep away from ignition
sources and open flames, handle outdoors only, do not
smoke, and wipe up spills immediately.
FUEL MIXTURE
This product is powered by a 2-cycle engine and requires
pre-mixing gasoline and 2-cycle lubricant. Pre-mix unleaded
gasoline and 2-cycle engine lubricant in a clean container
approved for gasoline. DO NOT mix quantities larger than
usable in a 30-day period.
Recommended fuel: This engine is certified to operate on
unleaded gasoline intended for automotive use.
NOTE: We recommend you use Ethanol Shield 2-cycle
l­ubricant or an equivalent high-quality synthetic 2-cycle
l­ubricant in this product. Mix at 2.6 oz. per gallon (US).
Do not use automotive lubricant or 2-cycle outboard
­lubricant.
HIGH QUALITY 2-CYCLE ENGINE LUBRICANT
GASOLINE
LUBRICANT

Page 7 — English

1.0 gal. (US) (3.8 liter)
2.5 gal. (US) (9.5 liter)

2.6 oz. (76 ml)
6.4 oz. (189 ml)

OPERATION
FILLING THE TANK
 Clean the surface around the fuel cap to prevent contamination.

 Allow the engine to run for 15 seconds, then set the choke
lever to the RUN position.
TO STOP THE ENGINE:

 Pour the fuel mixture carefully into the tank.

 To stop the engine, depress and hold the STOP switch
to the stop position “ ”.

 Clean and inspect the fuel cap gasket before replacing
the fuel cap.

HOT RESTART OF THE ENGINE:
 Set the choke lever to the RUN position.

 Replace the fuel cap and tighten it by turning it clockwise.

 Lock cruise control lever/throttle lock.

 Wipe spilled fuel from the product.

 Pull the starter grip and rope until the engine runs.

 Move at least 30 ft. away from refueling area before starting the product.

IF ASSISTANCE IS REQUIRED STARTING THIS
PRODUCT:

 Loosen the fuel cap slowly by turning counterclockwise.

NOTE: It is normal for smoke to be emitted from a new
engine during first use.

WARNING:

Do not return this product to the retail store where it was
purchased. Please call our Customer Service Department
for any issues you may have.
For Help Call: 1-800-242-4672

Check for fuel leaks, which are a fire hazard. Failure
to do so could result in a fire that could cause serious
personal injury.

OPERATING THE BLOWER
See Figures 10 - 11.

WARNING:
WARNING:
Always shut off engine before fueling. Never remove fuel
cap or add fuel to a machine with a running or hot engine.
Make sure the unit is sitting on a flat, level surface and
only add fuel outdoors. If the engine is hot, let the unit cool
for at least five minutes before adding fuel. After fueling,
immediately replace fuel cap and tighten securely. Move
at least 30 ft. from refueling site before starting engine. Do
not smoke and stay away from open flames and sparks!
Failure to follow these instructions could result in a fire
and cause serious personal injury.

Never run the unit without the blower tubes installed and
the vacuum door securely closed. Use of an improperly
assembled unit could result in serious personal injury.

NOTICE:
Always operate your product in compliance with all
applicable laws and ordinances.
 Start the blower. Refer to Starting and Stopping earlier
in this manual. Hold the blower with the upper handle in
your right hand.

STARTING AND STOPPING

WARNING:

See Figure 9.
Blower should be on a flat, bare surface for starting.
 Slowly press the primer bulb 10 times.
NOTE: After the 10th press, fuel should be visible in the
primer bulb. If it is not, continue to press the primer until
you see fuel in the bulb.

Always hold the blower away from your body with the
handle in your right hand when operating as a blower,
keeping clearance between your body and the product.
The muffler side of the blower should be away from your
body. Any contact with the housing can result in burns
and/or other serious personal injury.

 		Set the choke lever to the FULL CHOKE position.
 		Lock cruise control lever/throttle lock to the full throttle
position.
 Pull starter grip and rope sharply until engine attempts to
run. Do not pull the starter grip and rope more than four
(4) times.
 Set the choke lever to the HALF CHOKE position.
 Pull the starter grip and rope until the engine runs.
NOTE: If the engine does not start, return to the FULL
CHOKE position and repeat the steps that follow.

WARNING:
Do not place blower on top of or near loose debris or
gravel. Debris may be sucked into blower intake vent
resulting in possible damage to the unit and could result
in serious personal injury.
 To keep from scattering debris, blow around the outer
edges of a debris pile. Never blow directly into the center
of a pile.

Page 8 — English

OPERATION
 Operate power equipment at reasonable hours only — not
early in the morning or late at night when people might be
disturbed. Comply with the times listed in local ordinances.
 To reduce sound levels, limit the number of pieces of
equipment used at any one time.
 Conserve water by using power blowers instead of hoses
for many lawn and garden applications, including areas
such as gutters, screens, patios, grills, porches, and
gardens.
 Operate blower at the lowest possible throttle speed to
do the job.
 Check your equipment before operation, especially the
muffler, air intakes, and air filters.
 Use rakes and brooms to loosen debris before blowing.
 In dusty conditions, slightly dampen surfaces when water
is available.
 Watch out for children, pets, open windows, or freshly
washed cars, and blow debris safely away.
 Hold blower, as shown in Figure 10, so the air stream can
work close to the ground.
 After using blowers or other equipment, CLEAN UP!
Dispose of debris properly.
 Use the sweeper nozzle for the everyday blowing operation. This nozzle allows for more area to be covered during
the blowing operation.

CRUISE CONTROL LEVER/THROTTLE LOCK
See Figure 12.
The cruise control lever/throttle lock can be used to operate
the blower without holding the throttle trigger.
 To engage, pull cruise control lever/throttle lock back
towards user, and stop at the desired throttle setting.
 To release, push cruise control lever/throttle lock all the
way towards the front of unit.

VACUUM OPERATION
See Figure 13.

WARNING:
Never run the unit without the vacuum tubes and vacuum
bag installed. Use of an improperly assembled unit could
result in serious personal injury.

WARNING:
Keep the muffler and all hot surfaces of the blower/
vacuum away from your body. Failure to do so could
result in possible serious personal injury.
 Install the vacuum tubes and the bag. Refer to the
Assembly section earlier in this manual.
 Start the blower. Refer to Starting and Stopping earlier
in this manual.
 Place the vacuum bag strap over your right shoulder.
Hold the upper handle in your left hand and the vacuum
handle in your right hand.
 Move the blower/vacuum from side to side along outer
edge of the debris. To avoid clogging, do not place the
vacuum tube directly into the debris pile.
 Hold the engine higher than the inlet end of the vacuum
tube.
 Always point vacuum tube downhill when working on a
hillside.
 To avoid serious injury to the operator or damage to the
unit, do not pick up rocks, metal, broken glass, bottles,
or other similar objects.
 If the vacuum tubes should clog, stop the engine , ensure
impeller blades have stopped spinning, and disconnect
the spark plug wire before cleaning out the obstruction.
 Remove the vacuum tubes and clear the debris from the
blower fan housing. Remove the bag and clear the tube.
A small rod or stick may be required to clear the entire
tube length. Ensure that all debris has been cleared before
reassembling the vacuum tubes.

Page 9 — English

MAINTENANCE
Normal maintenance, replacement or repair of emission control devices and systems may be performed by any qualified
repair establishment or individual with original or equivalent
parts. Warranty and recall repairs must be performed by an
authorized service center; please contact customer service
for assistance.

 Rinse filter with clean water.
 Gently squeeze filter until excess water is removed.
Replace filter.
 Place the air filter cover back on the unit. Turn dial clockwise until cover is secure.

CLEANING THE EXHAUST PORT, MUFFLER
AND SPARK ARRESTOR

WARNING:
Before inspecting, cleaning, or servicing the machine,
shut off engine, wait for all moving parts to stop, and
disconnect spark plug wire and move it away from spark
plug. Failure to follow these instructions can result in
serious personal injury or property damage.

WARNING:
Always wear eye protection with side shields marked to
comply with ANSI Z87.1, along with hearing protection.
Failure to do so could result in objects being thrown into
your eyes and other possible serious injuries.

WARNING:
When servicing, use only recommended or equivalent
replacement parts. Use of any other parts could create
a hazard or cause product damage.

NOTICE:
Periodically inspect the entire product for damaged,
missing, or loose parts such as screws, nuts, bolts, caps,
etc. Tighten securely all fasteners and caps and do not
operate this product until all missing or damaged parts are
replaced. Please contact customer service or a qualified
service center for assistance.

NOTICE:
The spark arrestor on this product has not been evaluated by the USDA Forest Service and cannot be used on
U.S. forest lands. In addition, product users must comply
with Federal, State, and local fire prevention regulations.
Check with appropriate authorities. Contact customer
service or a qualified service center to purchase a replacement spark arrestor.
NOTE: Depending on the type of fuel used, the type and
amount of lubricant used, and/or your operating conditions, the
exhaust port, muffler, and/or spark arrestor screen may become blocked with carbon deposits. If you notice a power
loss with your gas powered tool, you may need to remove
these deposits to restore performance. We highly recommend
that only qualified service technicians perform this service.
The spark arrestor must be cleaned or replaced every 50
hours or yearly to ensure proper performance of your product. Spark arrestors may be in different locations depending
on the model purchased. Please contact customer service
or a qualified service center for assistance.

WARNING:
Never run the blower without a muffler equipped with a
spark arrestor in place. Failure to do so could result in a
fire that could cause serious personal injury.

GENERAL MAINTENANCE

VACUUM BAG

Avoid using solvents when cleaning plastic parts. Most
plastics are susceptible to damage from various types of
commercial solvents and may be damaged by their use.
Use clean cloths to remove dirt, dust, lubricant, grease, etc.

A dirty bag will reduce performance. To clean the bag, turn it
inside out and shake. Wash the bag in soapy water at least
once a year. To obtain a replacement bag, see How to Obtain Replacement Parts on the back page of this manual.

FUEL CAP, TANK, AND LINES

WARNING:
Do not at any time let brake fluids, gasoline, petroleumbased products, penetrating lubricants, etc., come in contact with plastic parts. Chemicals can damage, weaken or
destroy plastic which could result in serious personal injury.

CLEANING THE AIR FILTER
See Figures 14 - 15.
For proper performance and long life, keep air filter clean.
 Remove the air filter cover by turning the dial counterclockwise while gently pulling on the cover.

WARNING:
Check for fuel leaks. A leaking fuel cap, tank, or line is a
fire hazard and must be replaced immediately. If you find
any leaks, correct the problem before using the product.
Failure to do so could result in a fire that could cause
serious personal injury.
The fuel cap contains a non-serviceable filter and a
check valve. A clogged fuel filter will cause poor engine

Page 10 — English

MAINTENANCE
performance. If performance improves when the fuel cap
is loosened, check valve may be faulty or filter clogged.
Replace fuel cap if required.

When storing 1 month or longer:

SPARK PLUG REPLACEMENT

HIGH ALTITUDE ENGINE OPERATION

This engine uses a Ryobi AC00160A, Champion RCJ-6Y,
or equivalent spark plug with .025 in. electrode gap. Use
a recommended or equivalent replacement and replace
annually.

Your engine is configured for operation below 2,000 feet
altitude at the factory. Your engine must be reconfigured for
operation above 2,000 feet altitude. Operating the engine
with the wrong engine configuration at a given altitude may
increase its emissions, decrease fuel efficiency, degrade
performance, and cause irreversible damage. Engines
configured for high altitude operation cannot be operated
in standard altitude conditions. A qualified service center
should ensure that your engine is properly configured for
your location.

STORING THE PRODUCT
 Clean all foreign material from the product. Store idle unit
indoors in a dry, well-ventilated area that is inaccessible
to children. Keep away from corrosive agents such as
garden chemicals and de-icing salts.

 Drain all fuel from tank into a container approved for
gasoline. Run engine until it stops.

 Abide by all ISO and local regulations for the safe storage
and handling of gasoline.

THIS PRODUCT WAS MANUFACTURED WITH A CATALYST MUFFLER
Congratulations! You have made an investment toward protecting the environment. In order to maintain this product’s
original emission level, please refer to the maintenance section below.

MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
Maintenance
Part

Inspect for

Damage Before
Each Use

Clean

Every
5 Hours

Replace

Every 25 Hours
or Yearly

Replace

Every
50 Hours

* CATALYTIC MUFFLER ASSEMBLY........................................................................................................................... X
SPARK SCREEN.........................................................................................................................................................X
* AIR FILTER ASSY
includes:
Filter...........................................................................................X
* CARBURETOR ASSY
includes:
Gaskets. .......................................... X
* FUEL TANK ASSY
includes:
Fuel Lines........................................ X
Fuel Cap.......................................... X
Fuel Filter...........................................................................................................................X
* IGNITION ASSY
includes:
Spark Plug.........................................................................................................................X
* NOTICE: THE USE OF EMISSION CONTROL COMPONENTS OTHER THAN THOSE DESIGNED FOR THIS UNIT 		
IS A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.

Page 11 — English

TROUBLESHOOTING
PROBLEM
Engine fails to start.

Engine hard to start.

POSSIBLE CAUSE

REMEDY

No fuel in tank.

Fill tank.

Spark plug shorted or fouled.

Replace spark plug.

Spark plug is broken. (cracked
­porcelain or electrodes broken)

Replace spark plug.

Ignition lead wire shorted, broken, or
disconnected from spark plug.

Replace lead wire or attach to spark
plug.

Ignition inoperative.

Contact a qualfied service center.

Water in gasoline or stale fuel mixture. Drain entire system and refill with fresh
fuel.
Too much lubricant in fuel mixture.

Drain and refill with correct mixture.

Engine is under or over choked.

Adjust choke as necessary.

Weak spark at spark plug.

Contact a qualfied service center.

Engine lacks power.

Air filter clogged.

Clean air filter. Refer to Cleaning the
Air Filter earlier in this manual.

Engine overheats.

Insufficient lubricant in fuel mixture.

Mix fuel as described in starting
­instructions.

If problem persists after trying the above solutions, contact customer service or a qualified service center for assistance.

NOTICE:
As the equipment owner, you are responsible for the performance of the required maintenance listed in the Maintenance
section. It is recommended that you retain all receipts covering maintenance on your equipment. Neglecting or failing
to perform the required maintenance may increase emissions, decrease fuel efficiency, degrade performance, cause
irreversible engine damage and/or void your warranty.

This product has a Two-year Limited Warranty for personal, family,
or household use (90 days for business or commercial use).
For warranty details, visit www.homelite.com
or call (toll free) 1-800-242-4672.

Page 12 — English

RÈGLES DE SÉCURITÉ GÉNÉRALES
 Laisser le moteur refroidir avant de remiser l’outil.

AVERTISSEMENT :
LIRE ET VEILLER À BIEN COMPRENDRE TOUTES
LES INSTRUCTIONS. Le non respect de toutes les
instructions ci-dessous peut entraîner un choc électrique,
un incendie et / ou des blessures graves.

LIRE TOUTES LES INSTRUCTIONS
 Ne pas laisser des enfants ou personnes n’ayant pas reçu
une formation adéquate utiliser cet outil.
 Ne pas démarrer ou faire tourner le moteur dans un
espace confine, de bâtiment, à proximité des fenêtres
ouverts, autre ou des zones sans ventilation où des
vapeurs toxiques de monoxyde de carbone peuvent
s’accumuler. Le monoxyde de carbone, un gaz incolore,
inodore et extrêmement toxique peut causer une perte
de conscience et être mortel.

 Vider le réservoir de carburant dans un contenant
approuvé pour l’essence et immobiliser l’unité avant de
la transporter dans un véhicule.
 Manipuler le carburant avec précaution pour éviter les
risques d’incendies et de brûlures. Le carburant est
extrêmement inflammable.
 Ne pas fumer pendant la manipulation du carburant.
 Mélanger et conserver le carburant dans un bidon ou
jerrican approuvé pour l’essence.
 Mélanger le carburant à l’extérieur, loin de toute flamme
ou source d’étincelles.
 Poser la machine sur un sol nu, arrêter le moteur et le
laisser refroidir avant de faire le plein.
 Desserrer le bouchon du réservoir lentement pour relâcher
la pression et éviter que le carburant s’échappe.

 Toujours porter une protection oculaire avec écrans
latéraux certifiée conforme à la norme ANSI Z87.1, avec
protection auditive. Si cette précaution n’est pas prise,
des objets peuvent être projetés dans les yeux et d’autres
lésions graves.

 Une fois le réservoir plein, remettre le bouchon en place
et le serrer fermement.

 Garder tous les badauds, enfants et animaux domestiques
à une distance d’au moins 15 m (50 pi).

 N’essayer en aucun cas de brûler le carburant répandu.

 Porter des pantalons longs, manches longues, des
chaussures de travail et des gants épais. Ne pas porter
de vêtements amples, shorts, sandales, bijoux quels qu’ils
soient et ne pas travailler pieds nus.
 Pour réduire les risques de happement par les pièces
en mouvement, ne pas porter de vêtements amples,
foulards, colliers, etc.
 Attacher les cheveux longs pour les maintenir au-dessus
des épaules, afin qu’ils ne se prennent pas dans les pièces
en rotation.
 Ne pas utiliser cet outil en état de fatigue, si l’on est
souffrant ou sous l’influence de l’alcool, de drogues ou
de médicaments.
 Ne pas travailler sous un éclairage insuffisant.
 Garder toutes les parties du corps à l’écart des pièces
en mouvement et des paries brûlantes de l’outil.
 Porter un masque facial filtrant dans les milieux
poussiéreux afin de réduire le risque de lésions lié à
l’inhalation de poussière.
 Examiner la zone de travail avant chaque utilisation. La
débarrasser de tous les objets tels que cailloux, verre
brisé, clous, fils métalliques, cordes, etc. risquant d’être
projetés ou de se prendre dans la machine.

 Essuyer tout le carburant éventuellement répandu.
S’éloigner de 9 m (30 pi) du point d’approvisionnement
avant de lancer le moteur.
 Utiliser exclusivement des pièces de rechange et
accessoire recommandées ou équivalentes. L’usage de
toute autre pièce pourrait créer une situation dangereuse
ou endommager l’outil.
 Entretenir l’outil conformément aux instructions de ce
manuel d’utilisation.
 Inspecter l’outil avant chaque utilisation pour s’assurer
qu’il n’y a pas de pièces desserrées, de fuites ce
carburant, etc. Remplacer les pièces endommagées.
 Ne pas utiliser l’unité sur une échelle, un toit, un arbre ou
un autre support instable. Le fait de se tenir bien campé
sur une surface solide permet de mieux contrôler la
soufflante dans des situations inattendues.
 Avant de nettoyer, réparer ou inspecter, arrêter le moteur
et vérifier que toutes les pièces en mouvement sont
immobilisées. Déconnecter le fil de bougie et le garder
à l’écart de la bougie afin d’empêcher un démarrage
accidentel.
 Il est recommandé d’apporter la équipement à un
centre de réparations qualifié pour la faire réparer pour
éviter que des réparations effectuées par une personne
inexpérimentée ou non qualifiée puissent endommager
la équipement, créer des conditions dangereuses, des
blessures à l’utilisateur et annuler la garantie.

 Se tenir bien campé et en équilibre. Ne pas travailler
hors de portée. Le travail hors de portée risque de faire
perdre l’équilibre ou de causer un contact avec les
pièces brûlantes.

Page 2 — Français

RÈGLES DE SÉCURITÉ PARTICULIÈRES
 Toujours tenir la soufflante / aspirateur avec la main
droite pendant le soufflage. Consulter les instructions
d’Utilisation présentées ultérieurement dans ce manuel afin
de connaître la position adéquate pour utiliser l’aspirateur,
et obtenir des renseignements supplémentaires.
 Ne jamais rien insérer dans les tubes.
 Utiliser exclusivement selon les instructions de ce manuel.
 Ne pas utiliser l’aspirateur sans le sac, car des débris
pourraient être projetés et infliger des blessures graves.
Toujours fermer le sac complètement avant d’utiliser
l’aspirateur.
 L’aubage de la roue en rotation peut entraîner des
blessures graves. Arrêter le moteur et s’assurer que
l’aubage de la roue a cessé de tourner avant d’ouvrir la
porte de l’aspirateur ou d’installer ou de changer les tuyaux.
Ne pas mettre les mains ou quelque objet que ce soit dans
les tubes installés sur la machine.
 Ne jamais utiliser la soufflante sans les accessoires
appropriés installés. Les tubes de soufflante doivent
toujours être installés lorsque la machine est utilisée en
soufflante. Lorsque la machine est utilisée pour aspirer,
les tubes d’aspiration et le sac doivent toujours être
installés. Pour éviter la projection de débris, s’assurer que
la fermeture à glissière de sac est complètement fermée
lorsque le moteur tourne.
 Éviter les situations pouvant mettre le feu au sac. Ne pas
utiliser la machine à proximité de flammes vives. Ne pas
aspirer les cendres chaudes de cheminées, barbecues,
feux de bois, etc. Ne pas aspirer de mégots de cigares
ou cigarettes dont les cendres ne sont pas complètement
froides.
 Ne jamais placer la soufflante en marche sur une surface,
sauf si celle-ci est dure et propre. Le gravier, le sable et
les autres débris peuvent être aspirés dans l’entrée d’air
et projetés en direction de l’utilisateur ou des personnes
à proximité, ce qui peut entraîner des blessures graves.
 Pour réduire les risques de perte de l’ouïe causée par le
niveau sonore, porter une protection auditive.
 Pour réduire les risques de blessures infligées par des
pièces en rotation, arrêter le moteur avant d’installer ou
de retirer des accessoires. Toujours débrancher le fil de
bougie avant de procéder à un entretien ou d’accéder à
des pièces en mouvement.
 Ne jamais utiliser la soufflante à proximité d’un feu, d’un
poêle, de cendres chaudes, d’un barbecue, etc., sans quoi
le feu risque de se propager.
 Ne pas diriger la soufflante vers des personnes ou un
animaux.
 Ce produit est conçu pour les personnes qui prévoient
l’utiliser de manière peu fréquente pour des applications
générales par exemple, souffler les feuilles et les brins
d’herbe, etc.; l’outil peut également convenir à d’autres
utilisateurs occasionnels. Elle n’est pas conçue pour un
usage prolongé. Les périodes d’utilisation prolongée

peuvent entraîner des problèmes circulatoires dans les
mains de l’opérateur, causés par les vibrations. Pour ce type
d’application, il peut être bon d’utiliser une scie équipée
d’un dispositif anti-vibrations.

APPROVISIONNEMENT EN CARBURANT
 Le carburant est extrêmement inflammable. Lors de
l’utilisation, prendre les précautions nécessaires pour
réduire le risque de blessures graves.
 Conserver le carburant dans une zone froide bien ventilée
à l’écart d’étincelles et / ou de matériels produisant des
flammes.
 Conserver le carburant dans des jerrycans spécialement
conçus à cet effet.
 Toujours faire le plein à l’extérieur et ne pas fumer pendant
cette opération.
 Faire l’appoint de carburant avant de lancer le moteur. Ne
jamais retirer le bouchon du réservoir de carburant ni faire
l’appoint pendant que le moteur tourne ou est chaud.
 Ne pas fumer pendant la manipulation du carburant.
 Mélanger et conserver le carburant dans un bidon ou
jerrycan approuvé pour l’essence.
 Mélanger le carburant à l’extérieur, loin de toute flamme
ou source d’étincelles.
 Desserrer le bouchon du réservoir lentement pour relâcher
la pression et éviter que le carburant s’échappe.
 Une fois le réservoir plein, remettre le bouchon en place
et le serrer fermement.
 Essuyer tout le carburant éventuellement répandu.
S’éloigner de 9 m (30 pi) du point d’approvisionnement
avant de lancer le moteur.
 N’essayer en aucun cas de brûler le carburant répandu.
 Manipuler le carburant avec précaution pour éviter les
risques d’incendies et de brûlures. Le carburant est
extrêmement inflammable.
 Si du carburant est répandu, ne pas essayer de lancer le
moteur, mais éloigner la machine et éviter de créer une
source d’inflammation jusqu’à ce que les vapeurs de
carburant se soient dissipées.
 Remettre en place les bouchons de jerrycan et de réservoir
de carburant et les serrer fermement.
 Vider le réservoir de carburant dans un contenant approuvé
pour l’essence et empêcher l’unité de bouger avant de le
transporter dans un véhicule.
 Lors de la vidange du réservoir de carburant, utiliser
un bidon ou jerrycan approuvé pour la conservation de
carburant et procéder dans un endroit bien aéré.
 Poser la machine sur un sol nu, arrêter le moteur et le laisser
refroidir avant de faire le plein.
 Conserver ces instructions. Les consulter fréquemment et
les utiliser pour instruire les autres utilisateurs éventuels.
Si cet outil est prêté, il doit être accompagné de ces
instructions.

Page 3 — Français

SYMBOLES
Les termes de mise en garde suivants et leur signification ont pour but d’expliquer le degré de risques associé à
l’utilisation de ce produit.

SYMBOLE

SIGNAL

SIGNIFICATION

DANGER :

Indique une situation dangereuse qui, si elle n’est pas évitée, aura pour
conséquences des blessures graves ou mortelles.

AVERTISSEMENT :

Indique une situation dangereuse qui, si elle n’est pas évitée, pourrait
entraîner des blessures graves ou mortelles.

ATTENTION :

Indique une situation dangereuse qui, si elle n’est pas évitée, pourraît
entraîner des blessures légères ou de gravité modérée.

AVIS :

(Sans symbole d’alerte de sécurité) Indique les informations jugées
importantes sans toutefois représenter un risque de blessure (ex. :
messages concernant les dommages matériels).

Certains des symboles ci-dessous peuvent être présents sur la produit. Veiller à les étudier et à apprendre leur
signification. Une interprétation correcte de ces symboles permettra d’utiliser la produit plus efficacement et de
réduire les risques.

SYMBOLE

NOM

EXPLICATION

Symbole d’alerte de sécurité

Indique un risque de blessure potentiel.

Lire le manuel d’utilisation

Pour réduire les risques de blessures, l’utilisateur doit lire
et veiller à bien comprendre le manuel d’utilisation avant
d’utiliser ce produit.

Protection oculaire et auditive

Toujours porter une protection oculaire avec écrans latéraux
latéraux certifiée conforme à la norme ANSI Z87.1, ainsi qu’une
protection auditive et respiration lors de l’utilisation de cet outil.

Ne laisser personne s’approcher

Garder les badauds à une distance de 15 m (50 pi) minimum.

Ricochet

Les objets projetés peuvent ricocher et infliger des blessures
ou causer des dommages matériels.

Volet d’aspiration

Ne pas actionner lorsque le volet d’aspiration n’est pas
verrouillé.

Cheveux longs

Risque d’aspiration des cheveux longs dans l’entrée d’air.

Tubes de soufflante

Ne pas utiliser sans les tubes en place.

Vêtements amples

Risque d’aspiration des vêtements amples dans l’entrée d’air.

Essence et lubrifiant

Utiliser de l’essence sans plomb pour automobiles, avec un
indice d’octane de 87 [(R + M) / 2] ou plus. Cet outil utilise
un moteur deux temps qui nécessite le mélange d’essence
et d’lubrifiant 2 temps.
Page 4 — Français

CARACTÉRISTIQUES
FICHE TECHNIQUE
Cylindrée................................................................................................................................................................................... 26 cc
Performance d’un souffleur (à la sortie de la buse) :
Embout éventail
Embout à haut débit
*M/H.............................................................................................. 150...................................................................200
*Pi3/min.......................................................................................... 400...................................................................150
*Évalué par ANSI B175.2

APPRENDRE À CONNAÎTRE LA SOUFFLANTE /
ASPIRATEUR

Voir la figure 1.
La sécurité d’utilisation de ce produit exige la compréhension
des informations apposées sur l’outil et contenues dans ce
manuel d’utilisation, ainsi que la connaissance du travail à
exécuter. Avant d’utiliser ce produit, se familiariser avec toutes
ses fonctions et règles de sécurité.

EMBOUT ÉVENTAIL
L’embout éventail permet de couvrir une surface plus large,
afin d’augmenter l’efficacité de soufflage des plus gros amas
de feuilles et de débris.

GÂCHETTE D’ACCÉLÉRATEUR
La soufflante peut être utilisée à n’importe quelle vitesse entre
le ralenti et le régime maximum.

TUBE DE SOUFFLANTE ET EMBOUT ÉVENTAIL

ASPIRATEUR / BROYEUR

Le tube et embout éventail peuvent être installés sur la soufflante
sans aucun outil.

Il est possible de convertir facilement la soufflante en un
aspirateur ou un broyeur à l’aide d’un tournevis à tête plate.

LEVIER DE RÉGULATEUR DE VITESSE /
­VERROUILLAGE D’ACCÉLÉRATION

SAC À DÉBRIS

Le levier de régulateur de vitesse / verrouillage d’accélération
permet d’utiliser la soufflante sans maintenir le doigt sur la
gâchette. Pour ralentir le moteur, il suffit de pousser la manette
de levier de régulateur de vitesse / verrouillage d’accélération
vers l’avant.

Le sac à débris se monte sur la machine au moyen d’un
adaptateur.

POIGNÉE D’ASPIRATEUR
Cette fonction permet de s’acquitter des travaux d’aspiration
confortablement.

MOTEUR

TUBES D’ASPIRATION

Cette soufflante est équipée d’un moteur de 26 cc, assez
puissant pour s’acquitter des tâches de soufflage et d’aspiration
les plus dures.

Il est possible d’installer les tuyaux de l’aspirateur sur la
soufflante à l’aide d’un tournevis à tête plate.

EMBOUT À HAUT DÉBIT
L’embout à haute vélocité est excellent pour les feuilles humide
collantes. Il permet de décoller les feuilles et débris humides
sur les surfaces dures pendant l’aspiration.

ASSEMBLAGE
DÉBALLAGE
Ce produit doit être assemblé.
 Avec précaution, sortir le produit et les accessoires de la
boîte. S’assurer que toutes les pièces figurant sur la liste de
contrôle sont incluses.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne pas utiliser le produit si, en le déballant, vous constatez
que des éléments figurant dans la Liste des pièces sont
déjà assemblés. Certaines pièces figurant sur cette liste
n’ont pas été assemblées par le fabricant et exigent une
installation. Le fait d’utiliser un produit qui a été assemblé
de façon inadéquate peut entraîner des blessures.

 Examiner soigneusement le produit pour s’assurer que
rien n’a été brisé ou endommagé en cours de transport.
 Ne pas jeter les matériaux d’emballage avant d’avoir
soigneusement examiné le produit et avoir vérifié qu’il
fonctionne correctement.
 Si des pièces sont manquantes ou endommagées,
appeler le 1-800-242-4672.

LISTE DES PIÈCES
Soufflante
Tube supérieur de soufflante
Embout éventail
Embout à haut débit
Tubes d’aspiration supérieur et inférieur
Vis du tube d’aspiration (2)

Page 5 — Français

ASSEMBLAGE
LISTE DES PIÈCES (continu)
Sac à débris
Adaptateur de sac à débris
Lubrifiant 2 temps
Manuel d’utilisation
NOTE : Lire toutes les étiquettes avant de les retirer et de les
ranger avec le Manuel d’utilisation.

 Pour utiliser l’embout haute vélocité, fixer l’embout éventail
en alignant les languettes soulevées de l’embout haute
vélocité avec la fente de l’embout éventail.
 Pour enlever les tubes, utiliser un tournevis à tête plate pour
soulever la languette de verrouillage puis tourner les tubes
pour les débloquer et les retirer du logement de sortie du
souffleur.

INSTALLATION DU SAC À DÉBRIS
AVERTISSEMENT :
Si des pièces manquent ou sont endommagées, ne pas
utiliser ce produit avant qu’elles aient été remplacées.
Le fait d’utiliser ce produit même s’il contient des pièces
endommagées ou s’il lui manque des pièces peut entraîner
des blessures graves.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne pas essayer de modifier ce produit ou de créer des
accessoires non recommandés pour le produit. De telles
altérations ou modifications sont considérées comme un
usage abusif et peuvent créer des conditions dangereuses,
risquant d’entraîner des blessures graves.

Voir les figures 5 et 6.
 Retirer la buse et le tube supérieur du souffleur en utilisant
un tournevis à tête plate pour soulever la languette de
verrouillage puis tourner et retirer du logement de sortie du
souffleur
 Ouvrir le sac à débris et pousser l’adaptateur du sac à débris
dans l’ouverture située du côté opposé de la fermeture à
glissière, comme illustré. L’extrémité large de l’adaptateur
demeurera à l’intérieur du sac à débris si l’accessoire est
correctement installé.
 Aligner les fentes de l’adaptateur de sac sur les languettes en
saillie de la sortie d’air de la soufflante. Enfoncer l’adaptateur
dans son logement et tourner pour l’assujettir en place.
 Tourner le sac pour orienter la bandoulière vers le haut.
 S’assurer que la fermeture à glissière du sac à débris est
bien fermée avant de mettre l’outil en marche.

INSTALLATION DES TUBES D’ASPIRATION

AVERTISSEMENT :

Voir les figures 7 et 8.

Pour empêcher un démarrage accidentel pouvant entraîner
des blessures graves, toujours déconnecter le fil de la bougie
avant d’assembler des pièces.

OUTILS NÉCESSAIRES

Voir la figure 2.
Les accessoires recommandés ci-dessous sont actuellement
en vente dans les magasins de détail :
 Tournevis à lame plate

ASSEMBLAGE DES TUBES DE SOUFFLANTE

Voir les figures 3 et 4.
 Aligner les languettes en saillie du boîtier principal sur les
fentes du tube supérieur de soufflante, emboîter le tube
et le serrer fermement en le tournant jusqu’à ce que les
tubes s’emboîtent dans la position verrouillée et que les
symboles de verrouillage sont alignées. Vérifier le serrage
après l’utilisation initiale et resserrer selon le besoin.

AVIS :
Lorsque les tubes sont assemblés correctement, ils seront
difficiles à séparer. S’il est facile de les séparer, les tubes
ne sont pas verrouillés. Continuer à les tourner jusqu’à
ce que les tubes s’emboîtent dans la position verrouillée.
Des tubes non verrouillés peuvent se séparer pendant le
fonctionnement de la soufflante.
 Fixer la embout éventail (buse à haute puissance ou buse
de balayeuse) sur le tuyau supérieur de la soufflante
en s’alignant sur les nervures de ce dernier. Les glisser
ensemble et les serrer en les tournant. Vérifier leur solidité
après l’utilisation initiale et les resserrer, au besoin.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Contact de les pales de ventilateur en rotation peuvent
causer des blessures graves. Toujours arrêter le moteur et
s’assurer que l’aubage de la roue a cessé de tourner avant
d’ouvrir le volet d’aspiration ou d’installer / changer les
tubes. Ne pas mettre les mains ou quelque objet que ce
soit dans les tubes installés sur la machine.
Installation des tubes d’aspiration :
 Assembler le tube d’aspiration supérieur sur le tube inférieur
en alignant les languettes en saillie sur les fentes.
 Taper l’ensemble des tubes sur le sol, jusqu’à ce que les
trous de vis du tube inférieur soient visibles dans les fentes
du tube supérieur. Assujettir les tubes avec les vis fournies.
 Appuyer sur le loquet de la porte à l’aide d’un tournevis à
tête plate et ouvrir la trappe d’admission de l’aspirateur.
 Aligner les montures à vis de l’ouverture de l’aspirateur avec
les vis de l’ensemble tuyau d’aspirateur.
 Tourner dans droite, resserrer la vis sur le tube d’aspiration
supérieur pour obtenir au boîtier du souffleur.
Retrait des tubes d’aspiration :
 Desserrer les vis du tuyau supérieur de l’aspirateur en les
tournant dans le sens antihoraire.
 Retirer les tubes d’aspiration du corps de la soufflante.
 Refermer soigneusement le volet d’entrée d’air.
 Retirer le sac de l’aspirateur en utilisant un tournevis à tête
plate pour soulever la languette de verrouillage puis tourner
pour déverrouiller l’adaptateur et retirer.

Page 6 — Français

UTILISATION
APPLICATIONS

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne pas laisser la familiarité avec ce produit faire oublier
la prudence. Ne pas oublier qu’une fraction de seconde
d’inattention peut entraîner des blessures graves.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Toujours porter une protection oculaire avec écrans
latéraux certifiée conforme à la norme ANSI Z87.1 ainsi
qu’un protection auditive. Si cette précaution n’est pas
prise, des objets peuvent être projetés dans les yeux et
causer des lésions graves.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne pas utiliser d’outils ou accessoires non recommandés
pour cet outil. L’utilisation de pièces et accessoires non
recommandés peut entraîner des blessures graves.

Ce produit peut être utilisé pour les applications ci‑dessous :
 Élimination des feuilles et débris des pelouses
 Élimination des feuilles et autres débris des terrasses
allées de garage
 Feuilles nettoyantes à l’aspirateur de votre pelouse

CARBURANTS À BASE D’ÉTHANOL
AVIS :
Ne pas utiliser d’essence E15 ou E85 dans ce produit.
Une telle utilisation représente une violation de la loi
fédérale et endommagera l’appareil et annulera la
garantie. Utiliser seulement de l’essence sans plomb
ne contenant pas plus de 10 % d’éthanol.
NOTE : Il est recommandé d’utiliser le lubrifiant pour moteur
2 temps Ethanol Shield pour améliorer la performance avec
l’utilisation d’essence oxygénée.

APPROVISIONNEMENT EN CARBURANT

AVERTISSEMENT :

AVERTISSEMENT :

S’assurer que tous les protecteurs et tubes sont
installés correctement avant l’utilisation. Si le souffleur
est échappé, éteindre le souffleur et s’assurer que ce
dernier est intact. Si un protecteur, une pièce ou un tube
est endommagé ou manquant, ne pas utiliser le souffleur
tant que ce dernier n’est pas réparé ou remplacé par un
centre de réparations qualifié. L’utilisation d’un souffleur
comportant des protecteurs, des pièces ou des tubes
endommagés ou manquants représente un risque de
blessures graves et d’endommager le souffleur.

AVIS :
Le pare-étincelles sur ce produit n’a pas été évalué par
le Service forestier des États-Unis et ne peut pas être
utilisé sur des terrains forestiers des États-Unis. De
plus, les utilisateurs du produit doivent respecter les
réglementations locales et gouvernementales de lutte
contre l’incendie. Consulter les autorités appropriées.
Contacter le service à la clientèle ou un centre de
réparations qualifié pour acheter un pare-étincelles de
rechange.

AVIS :
Avant chaque utilisation, inspecter au complet le produit
afin de s’assurer qu’aucune pièce (vis, écrous, boulons,
chapeaux, etc.) n’est endommagée, manquante ou
desserrée. Serrer solidement toutes les pièces de fixation
et les chapeaux et ne pas utiliser le produit tant que
toutes les pièces manquantes ou endommagées n’ont
pas été remplacées. Pour obtenir de l’aide, veuillez
communiquer avec le service à la clientèle ou un centre
de réparations qualifié.

L’essence et les vapeurs qu’elle dégage sont extrêmement
inflammables et explosives. Pour éviter des blessures
graves et des dommages matériels, manipuler avec
précaution. Garder le produit à l’écart des sources
d’inflammation et des flammes vives, l’utiliser uniquement
à l’extérieur, ne pas fumer, et essuyer rapidement tout
carburant répandu.
MÉLANGE DE CARBURANT
Cet outil utilise un moteur deux temps qui nécessite le
mélange d’essence et de lubrifiant 2 temps. Mélanger de
l’essence sans plomb et de le lubrifiant moteur 2 temps
dans un jerrycan propre homologué pour l’essence. NE PAS
mélanger plus de carburant qu’il ne sera utilisé dans une
période de 30 jours.
Carburant recommandé : Cet outil est certifié pour
fonctionner avec de l’essence sans plomb pour véhicules
automobiles.
NOTE : Nous recommandons l’utilisation de lubrifiant pour
moteur 2 temps Ethanol Shield ou une lubrifiant synthétique
de première qualité semblable pour moteur 2 temps dans
ce produit. Mélanger 76 ml par 3,8 L (2,6 oz par gallon US).
Ne pas utiliser de lubrifiant automobile ou pour moteur horsbord 2 temps.

Page 7 — Français

LUBRIFIANT 2 TEMPS DE HAUTE QUALITÉ
ESSENCE
LUBRIFIANT
3,8 litre [1,0 gal (US)]
9,5 litre [2,5 gal (US)]

76 ml (2,6 oz)
189 ml (6,4 oz)

UTILISATION
REMPLISSAGE DU RÉSERVOIR
 Nettoyer le pourtour du bouchon de remplissage pour
éviter la contamination du carburant.
 Desserrer le bouchon du réservoir en le tournant
lentement vers la gauche.
 Verser le mélange dans le réservoir avec précaution.
 Avant de remettre le bouchon en place, nettoyer et
inspecter son joint.
 Remettre le bouchon en place et le serrer en le tournant
vers la droite.
 Essuyer tout le carburant éventuellement répandu sur
l’outil.
 S’éloigner d’au moins 9 m (30 pi) du point
d’approvisionnement avant de lancer le moteur.
NOTE : Il est normal qu’un moteur neuf dégage de la fumée
lors de la première utilisation.

AVERTISSEMENT :
S’assurer de l’absence de fuites de carburant qui sont
un risque d’incendie. Ne pas prendre cette précaution
peut causer un incendie, entraînant des blessures graves.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Toujours arrêter le moteur avant de faire le plein de
carburant. Ne jamais retirer le bouchon du réservoir
d’essence lorsque le moteur tourne ou est chaud.
S’assurer que l’unité repose sur une surface plane, à
niveau et de remplir seulement à l’extérieur. Si le moteur
est chaud, laisser refroidir l’unité pendant au moins
cinq (5) minutes avant d’ajouter de l’essence. Remettre
immédiatement le bouchon du réservoir d’essence et
le serrer fermement. S’éloigner d’au moins 9 m (30 pi)
du point de ravitaillement avant de lancer le moteur. Ne
pas fumer, et rester à l’écart des flammes vives et des
étincelles ! Ne pas respecter ces instructions représente
un risque d’incendie et de blessures graves.

DÉMARRAGE ET ARRÊT

Voir la figure 9.
Pour le démarrage, le soufflante doit être posé sur un sol
nu et plat.
 Appuyer lentement 10 fois sur la poire d’amorçage.
NOTE : Après la 10e pression, on devrait apercevoir du
carburant dans la poire d’amorçage. Sinon, continuer à
presser sur l’amorceur jusqu’à voir du carburant dans
la poire.
 Mettre le volet de départ en position d’étranglement FULL
CHOKE (complètement ouvert).
 Verrouillez le levier de régulateur de vitesse / verrouillez
d’accélérateur en la position complètement ouvert
d’accélérateur.

 Tirer sur le cordon du lanceur jusqu’à ce que le moteur
essaie de démarrer. Ne pas tirer le poignée du lanceur
et corde plus de quatre (4) fois.
 Mettre le volet de départ en position HALF CHOKE (demi
étranglement).
 Tirer sur le poignée du lanceur et corde jusqu’à ce que
le moteur démarre.
NOTE : Si le moteur ne démarre pas, mettre le levier
d’étrangleur en position FULL CHOKE (complètement
ouvert) et répéter les étapes suivantes.
 Laisser le moteur tourner pendant 15 secondes et mettre
le levier du volet de départ en position RUN (marche).
ARRÊT DU MOTEUR :
 Appuyer sur l’interrupteur d’arrêt « ». et le tenir enfonce
jusqu’à ce que le moteur s’arrête.
CHAUD RELANCER DU MOTOR :
 Mettre le volet de départ en position RUN (marche).
 Verrouiller le levier de régulateur de vitesse / verrouillage
d’accélération.
 Tirer sur le poignée du lanceur et corde jusqu’à ce que
le moteur démarre.
EN CAS DE BESOIN D’ASSISTANCE DÉMARRAGE
AVEC CE PRODUIT :
Ne pas le retourner au magasin de détail où il a été acheté.
Pour toute question, appeler notre service après-vente.
Pour toute assistance, appeler le : 1-800-242-4672

UTILISATION DE LA SOUFFLANTE
Voir les figures 10 et 11.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne jamais utiliser la soufflante sans les tubes installés et
le volet d’aspiration bien fermé. Le fait d’utiliser une unité
qui a été assemblée de façon inadéquate peut entraîner
des blessures.

AVIS :
Toujours faire fonctionner le produit conformément à
toutes lois et tous les règlements en vigueur.
 Mettre la soufflante en marche. Voir Démarrage et
arrêt, plus haut dans ce manuel. Tenir la soufflante par
la poignée supérieure, avec la main droite.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Toujours garder l’appareil à l’écart de son corps en le
tenant par la poignée à l’aide de la main droite au moment
d’utiliser l’outil comme soufflante, en maintenant une
distance de sécurité entre le corps et l’équipement. Le
côté du silencieux de la soufflante doit être placé à l’écart
du corps. Tout contact avec le logement peut entraîner
des brûlures ou d’autres blessures graves.

Page 8 — Français

UTILISATION
UTILISATION DE L’ASPIRATEUR
Voir la figure 13.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne pas placer la soufflante sur des débris ou sur du
gravier ou à proximité de ceux-ci. Les débris peuvent être
aspirés dans la prise d’air de la soufflante, ce qui peut
endommager l’unité et entraîner des blessures graves.
 Pour éviter d’éparpiller les débris, souffler autour des
bords d’un tas de débris. Ne jamais souffler directement
vers le centre d’un tas.
 N’utiliser les outils motorisés qu’a des heures
raisonnables — pas très tôt le matin ou très tard le soir,
afin de ne pas déranger les voisins. Se conformer aux
heures indiquées dans les réglementations locales.
 Pour réduire le niveau sonore, limiter le nombre d’outils
motorisés utilisés en même temps.
 Conserver l’eau en utilisant une soufflante au lieu de
tuyaux d’arrosage pour divers travaux de jardin et pelouses,
tels que le nettoyage des gouttières, moustiquaires,
patios, grills, porches et massifs de fleurs.
 Utiliser la soufflante à la vitesse la plus basse permettant
d’effectuer le travail.
 Vérifier le matériel avant de l’utiliser, en particulier
l’échappement, l’entrée d’air et les filtres à air.
 Utiliser des râteaux et pelles pour séparer les débris avant
de les souffler.
 Dans un environnement poussiéreux humidifier
légèrement les surfaces si de l’eau est disponible.
 Prêter attention aux enfants, animaux, fenêtres ouvertes
ou véhicules fraîchement lavés et souffler les débris en
direction opposée.
 Tenir la soufflante tel qu’illustré à la figure 10 de façon à
ce que le courant d’air puisse passer près du sol.
 Après utilisation de la soufflante ou de tout autre
équipement, NETTOYER ! Pour jeter les débris
correctement.
 Utiliser l’embout éventail pour le nettoyage quotidien. Cet
embout permet de couvrir une surface plus large.

LEVIER DE RÉGULATEUR DE VITESSE /
VERROUILLAGE D’ACCÉLÉRATION

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne jamais faire fonctionner l’unité si les tubes et le sac
ne sont pas installés. Le fait d’utiliser un produit qui a été
assemblé de façon inadéquate peut entraîner des blessures.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Tenir le silencieux ainsi que toutes les surfaces brûlantes
de la soufflante ou de l’aspirateur à l’écart des parties du
corps. L’inobservation de cette règle peut entraîner des
blessures graves.
 Installer les tubes d’aspiration et le sac à débris. Voir
Assemblage, plus haut dans ce manuel.
 Mettre la soufflante en marche. Voir Démarrage et arrêt,
plus haut dans ce manuel.
 Placer la bandoulière du sac sur l’épaule droite. Tenir la
poignée supérieure avec la main gauche et la poignée
d’aspirateur, avec la main droite.
 Utiliser un mouvement de balayage sur le côté des débris.
Pour éviter l’obturation, ne pas poser l’embouchure du
tube directement sur les débris.
 Tenir le moteur plus haut que l’extrémité du tube
d’aspiration.
 Lors du travail sur une pente, toujours diriger le tube
d’aspiration vers le bas de la pente.
 Pour éviter des blessures graves ou dommages à la unite,
ne pas aspirer de cailloux, de métal, de verre brisé, de
bouteilles ou autres objets similaires.
 En cas d’obstruction du tube d’aspiration, arrêter le moteur,
s’assurer que l’aubage de la roue a cessé de tourner, et
débrancher le fil de la bougie avant de débloquer le tube.
 Retirer les tubes d’aspiration et éliminer les débris du
boîtier de ventilateur. Retirer le sac à débris et déboucher
le tube. Il peut être nécessaire d’utiliser une petite tige ou
un bâton pour dégager complètement le tube. S’assurer
que tous les débris ont été enlevés avant de réassembler
les tubes d’aspiration.

Voir la figure 12.
Le levier de régulateur de vitesse / verrouillage d’accélération
permet d’utiliser la soufflante sans maintenir le doigt sur la
gâchette.
 Pour engager, tirer le levier de régulateur de vitesse /
verrouillage d’accélération vers soi, jusqu’à ce que le
régime désiré soit atteint.
 Pour désengager, pousser son levier de régulateur de
vitesse / verrouillage d’accélération à fond vers l’avant.

Page 9 — Français

ENTRETIEN
L’entretien normal, le remplacement ou la réparation des
dispositifs du système antipollution doit être fait par un
magasin de réparation ou un technicien qualifié possédant
les pièces d’origine ou équivalentes. La garantie et les
rappels pour réparations peuvent être faits par un centre
de réparations autorisé; pour obtenir de l’aide, veuillez
communiquer avec le service à la clientèle.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Avant d’inspecter, nettoyer ou entretenir l’équipement,
arrêter le moteur, attendre l’arrêt complet de toutes les
pièces en mouvement, déconnecter le fil de la bougie
et l’écarter de cette dernière. Le non-respect de ces
instructions peut entraîner des blessures graves ou des
dégâts matériels.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Toujours porter une protection oculaire avec écrans
latéraux certifiée conforme à la norme ANSI Z87.1, avec
protection auditive. Si cette précaution n’est pas prise,
des objets peuvent être projetés dans les yeux et causer
des lésions graves.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Utiliser exclusivement des pièces recommandées ou
équivalentes à celles d’origine pour les réparations.
L’usage de toute autre pièce pourrait créer une situation
dangereuse ou endommager l’outil.

AVIS :
Inspecter périodiquement au complet le produit afin de
s’assurer qu’aucune pièce (vis, écrous, boulons, chapeaux,
etc.) n’est endommagée, manquante ou desserrée. Serrer
solidement toutes les pièces de fixation et les chapeaux et
ne pas utiliser le produit tant que toutes les pièces manquantes ou endommagées n’ont pas été remplacées. Pour
obtenir de l’aide, veuillez communiquer avec le Service à
la clientèle ou un centre de réparations qualifié.

ENTRETIEN GÉNÉRAL
Éviter d’utiliser des solvants pour le nettoyage des pièces en
plastique. La plupart des matières plastiques peuvent être
endommagées par divers types de solvants du commerce.
Utiliser un chiffon propre pour éliminer la saleté, la poussière,
l’lubrifiant, la graisse, etc.

NETTOYAGE LE FILTRE À AIR

Voir les figures 14 et 15.
Pour assurer un fonctionnement correct et une longue vie
utile, garder le filtre à air propre.
 Retirer le couvercle du filtre à air en tournant le cadran
dans le sens antihoraire, tout en tirant légèrement sur le
couvercle.
 Rincer le filtre avec de l’eau propre.
 Presser légèrement sur le filtre jusqu’à ce que l’excédent
d’eau soit retiré. Replacer le filtre.
 Remettre le couvercle du filtre à air sur l’unité. Tourner le
cadran dans le sens horaire jusqu’à ce que le couvercle
soit fixé solidement.

NETTOYAGE DE L’ORIFICE D’ÉCHAPPEMENT,
DU SILENCIEUX ET PARE-ÉTINCELLES
AVIS :
Le pare-étincelles sur ce produit n’a pas été évalué par
le Service forestier des États-Unis et ne peut pas être
utilisé sur des terrains forestiers des États-Unis. De
plus, les utilisateurs du produit doivent respecter les
réglementations locales et gouvernementales de lutte
contre l’incendie. Consulter les autorités appropriées.
Contacter le service à la clientèle ou un centre de
réparations qualifié pour acheter un pare-étincelles de
rechange.
NOTE : Suivant le type de carburant utilisé, le type et la
quantité de lubrifiant et / ou les conditions de travail, l’orifice
d’échappement et le silencieux peuvent se calaminer. Si un
outil motorisé semble avoir perdu de la puissance, cette
calamine doit être éliminée pour restaurer le fonctionnement
normal. Il est vivement recommandé de confier ce travail à
un technicien qualifié.
Le pare-étincelles doit être nettoyé ou remplacé toutes les
50 heures de fonctionnement ou tous les ans pour assurer
le fonctionnement correct de l’outil. L’emplacement du pareétincelles diffère suivant le modèle. Pour obtenir de l’aide,
veuillez communiquer avec le service à la clientèle ou un
centre de réparations qualifié.

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne jamais utiliser la soufflante sans un silencieux équipé
d’un pare-étincelles en place. Ne pas prendre cette
précaution peut causer un incendie, entraînant des
blessures graves.

SAC À DÉBRIS

AVERTISSEMENT :
Ne jamais laisser de liquides tels que le fluide de freins,
l’essence, les produits à base de pétrole, les lubrifiants
pénétrantes, etc., entrer en contact avec les pièces en
plastique. Les produits chimiques peuvent endommager,
affaiblir ou détruire le plastique, ce qui peut entraîner des
blessures graves.

Un sac encrassé nuit aux performances. Pour nettoyer le sac,
le retourner et le secouer. Le laver dans de l’eau savonneuse
au moins une fois par an. Pour obtenir un sac de rechange,
consulter Comment obtenir les pièces de remplacement
qui sont indiquées à la dernière page du présent guide.

Page 10 — Français

ENTRETIEN
BOUCHON DU CARBURANT, RÉSERVOIR,
RÉSERVOIR, OU CONDUITES

à l’écart de produits corrosifs, tels que les produits
chimiques de jardinage et le sel de dégivrage.
 Se conformer à toutes les réglementations locales
et gouvernementales concernant la sécurité de la
manipulation et de l’entreposage de l’essence.
Remisage 1 mois ou plus :
 Vider complètement le réservoir de carburant dans un
bidon ou jerrycan approuvé pour l’essence. Laisser le
moteur tourner jusqu’à ce qu’il cale.

AVERTISSEMENT :
S’assurer de l’absence de fuites de carburant. Un
bouchon de carburant, réservoir, ou conduites con fugas
qui fuit pose un risque d’incendie et doit être remplacé
immédiatement. Toutes les fuites doivent être éliminées
avant d’utiliser le produit. Ne pas prendre cette précaution
peut causer un incendie, entraînant des blessures graves.
Le bouchon du réservoir de carburant contient un filtre et
un clapet antiretour non réparables. Un filtre à carburant
colmaté nuit au bon fonctionnement du moteur. Si le
fonctionnement du moteur s’améliore lorsque le bouchon est
desserré, le clapet antiretour peut être défectueux ou le filtre
colmaté. Si nécessaire, remplacer le bouchon de carburant.

REMPLACEMENT DE LA BOUGIE
Ce moteur utilise une bougie Ryobi AC00160A, Champion RCJ6Y ou équivalente avec un écartement d’électrode de 0,63 mm
(0,025 po). La bougie doit être remplacée annuellement par
une bougie recommandées ou équivalentes.

REMISAGE LE PRODUIT

FONCTIONNEMENT DU MOTEUR À HAUTE
ALTITUDE
Ce moteur est configuré en usine pour fonctionner à une
altitude inférieure à 609,6 m (2 000 pi). Le moteur doit être
reconfiguré s’il doit fonctionner à plus de 609,6 m (2 000 pi)
d’altitude. Faire fonctionner le moteur n’ayant pas la
configuration requise selon une altitude donnée représente
un risque d’augmentation des émissions, de diminution de
la consommation d’essence, d’appauvrir la performance en
plus de causer des dommages permanents. Les moteurs
configurés pour fonctionnée à haute altitude ne peuvent pas
être opérés selon des conditions d’altitudes habituelles. Un
centre de réparations qualifié devrait pour assurer la bonne
configuration du moteur selon l’endroit d’utilisation.

 Nettoyer soigneusement le produit. La remiser dans
un endroit bien aéré, inaccessible aux enfants. La tenir

CE PRODUIT A ÉTÉ ÉQUIPÉ EN USINE D’UN CONVERTISSEUR CATALYTIQUE
Félicitations ! Vous venez d’investir dans la protection de l’environnement. Pour maintenir le niveau d’émissions original de ce
produit, voir la section Entretien ci-dessous.

PROGRAMME D’ENTRETIEN
Pièce
d’entretien

Inspecter avant
chaque utilisation
n’est pas endommagé

Nettoyer toutes
le 5 heures de
fonctionnement

Remplacer toutes
les 25 heures ou
chaque année

Reemplácelo
cada
50 heures

* ENSEMBLE CATALYTIQUE DU SILENCIEUX................................................................................................................................X
ÉCRAN PARE-ÉTINCELLES. ..........................................................................................................................................................X
* FILTRE À AIR
inclut :
Filtre.........................................................................................................X
* CARBURATEUR
inclut :
Joints........................................................... X
* RÉSERVOIR DE CARBURANT
inclut :
Conduites de carburant............................... X
Bouchon du réservoir de carburant............. X
Filtre à carburant. .....................................................................................................................................X
* ALLUMAGE
inclut :
Bougie. .....................................................................................................................................................X
* AVIS : L’UTILISATION DE DISPOSITIFS ANTIPOLLUTION AUTRES QUE CEUX CONÇUS POUR CET OUTIL REPRÉSENTE UNE VIOLATION
DE LA LOI FÉDÉRALE.

Page 11 — Français

DÉPANNAGE
PROBLÈME
Le moteur ne démarre pas.

CAUSE POSSIBLE

SOLUTION

Pas de carburant dans le réservoir.

Remplir le réservoir.

Bougie encrassée ou noyée.

Remplacer la bougie.

Bougie cassée (porcelaine fendue ou
électrode brisé).

Remplacer la bougie.

Fil d’allumage court-circuité, brisé ou
déconnecté de la bougie.

Remplacer le fil d’allumage ou le
brancher sur la bougie.

Allumage inopérant.

Contacter un centre de réparations
qualifié.

Eau dans le carburant ou mélange
défraîchi.

Vidanger et remplir avec du carburant
frais.

Trop d’lubrifiant dans le mélange.

Vidanger et remplir de mélange
correct.

Volet de départ trop ou pas assez
ouvert.

Régler le volet de départ selon le
besoin.

Bougie humide.

Contacter un centre de réparations
qualifié.

Le moteur manque de puissance.

Filtre à air colmaté.

Nettoyer le filtre à air. Voir la section
Nettoyage du filtre à air, plus haut dans
ce manuel.

Le moteur surchauffe.

Pas assez d’lubrifiant dans le
­mélange.

Mélanger le carburant comme indiqué
dans les instructions de démarrage.

Moteur difficile à lancer.

Si le problème persiste après avoir essayé les solutions ci-dessus, communiquer avec le service à la clientèle ou un centre
de réparations qualifié pour obtenir de l’aide.

AVIS :
Le propriétaire de cet équipement est tenu d’effectuer les entretiens requis indiqués dans la section Entretien. Il est
recommandé de conserver tous les reçus d’entretien de votre équipement. La négligence ou l’oubli de procéder à
l’entretien requis représente un risque d’augmentation des émissions, de diminuer le rendement énergétique, de nuire
à la performance, créer des bris irréparables du moteur et de annuleront la garantie.

Ce produit est accompagné d’une garantie limitée de deux (2) ans
pour utilisation personnel, familiales ou domestiques [90 jours
pour utilisation affaires ou commerciaux]. Pour obtenir les détails
de la garantie, visiter le site www.homelite.com
ou appeler (sans frais) au 1-800-242-4672.

Page 12 — Français

REGLAS DE SEGURIDAD GENERALES
ADVERTENCIA:
LEA Y COMPRENDA TODAS LAS INSTRUCCIONES.
El incumplimiento de las instrucciones señaladas abajo
puede causar descargas eléctricas, incendios y lesiones
serias.

LEA TODAS LAS INSTRUCCIONES
 No permita que utilicen esta unidad niños ni personas
carentes de la debida instrucción para su manejo.
 No haga arrancar o funcionar el motor en un espacio
confinado, de edificio, cerca de ventana abiertas, o en
otro área sin ventilación donde se puedan recolectar las
emanaciones de monóxido de carbono. El monóxido
de carbono, un gas incoloro, inodoro y sumamente
peligroso, puede causar la pérdida de la conciencia o la
muerte.
 Siempre póngase la protección ocular con protección
lateral marcada conforme al ANSI Z87.1 junto con
protección para los oídos. La inobservancia de esta
advertencia puede permitir que los objetos lanzados
hacia los ojos y otros provocarle lesiones graves.
 Mantenga a todos los circunstantes, niños y animales
por lo menos a 15 metros (50 pies) de distancia.
 Póngase pantalones, mangas largas, botas y guantes
gruesos. No se ponga ropa holgada, pantalones cortos,
sandales, joyería de ningún tipo ni ande descalzo.
 Para disminuir el riesgo de lesiones debido a la atracción
de objetos hacia las piezas rotatorias, evite ponerse ropas
holgadas, bufandas, cadenas para el cuello, etc.
 Recójase el cabello largo, de manera que le quede arriba
del nivel de los hombros para evitar que se enrede en las
piezas rotatorias.
 No use esta unidad cuando se encuentre fatigado,
enfermo o bajo los efectos del alcohol, drogas o
medicamentos.
 No utilice este producto si no hay luz suficiente.
 Mantenga todas las partes del cuerpo alejadas de toda
pieza móvil y superficie caliente de la unidad.
 En condiciones polvorientas use una mascarilla de filtro
para reducir el riesgo de lesiones producidas por la
aspiración del polvo.
 Revise el área de trabajo cada vez antes de utilizar esta
herramienta. Retire todos los objetos como piedras,
vidrio roto, clavos, alambre o cuerda que puedan salir
disparados o enredarse en la máquina.
 Mantenga los pies bien afirmados y el equilibrio. No
trate de alcanzar demasiado lejos. Al tratar de hacerlo
puede perder el equilibrio o exponerse al contacto con
superficies calientes.

 Antes de guardar la unidad, deje que se enfríe el motor.
 Vacíe el tanque de combustible en un recipiente
aprobado para gasolina y evite mover la unidad antes
de transportarla en un vehículo.
 Para reducir el riesgo de incendio o de lesiones por
quemadura, maneje con cuidado el combustible. Es
sumamente inflamable.
 No fume mientras esté mezclando el combustible o
reabasteciendo el tanque.
 Mezcle y guarde el combustible en un recipiente
aprobado para gasolina.
 Mezcle el combustible al aire libre, donde no haya chispas
ni llamas.
 Busque suelo raso para depositar la unidad, apague el
motor, y permita que se enfríe antes de reabastecerlo de
combustible.
 Afloje la tapa del tanque de combustible para aliviar la
presión y para evitar que se escape combustible por la
tapa.
 Después de reabastecer de combustible la unidad ponga
la tapa y apriétela firmemente.
 Limpie todo el combustible que se haya derramado de
la unidad. Aléjese por lo menos 9 m (30 pies) del sitio
de reabastecimiento de combustible antes de encender
el motor.
 Nunca intente en ninguna circunstancia eliminar el
combustible derramado quemándolo.
 Sólo utilice piezas de repuesto recomendados o
equivalentes y accesorios del fabricante original. El
empleo de piezas diferentes puede causar un peligro o
dañar el producto.
 Mantenga la unidad según las instrucciones de
mantenimiento señaladas en este manual del operador.
 Inspeccione cada vez la unidad antes de usarla para
ver si tiene tornillos flojos, fugas de combustible, etc.
Reemplace toda pieza dañada.
 No la use sobre escaleras, techos, árboles u otro soporte
inestable. Una base estable sobre una superficie sólida
permite tener un mejor control de la sopladora en
situaciones inesperadas.
 Antes de limpiar, reparar o inspeccionar la máquina,
apague el motor y cerciórese de que se hayan detenido
todas las partes en movimiento. Desconecte el cable de
la bujía, y mantenga dicho cable alejado de la bujía para
evitar el arranque de la unidad.
 Recomendamos que lleve la équipement a un centro de
servicio calificado para reparaciones, ya que todo servicio
realizado por personas sin experiencia o calificación
puede dañar la équipement, causar lesiones al usuario
crear condiciones de inseguridad, y anular la garantía.

Página 2 — Español

REGLAS DE SEGURIDAD ESPECÍFICAS
 Siempre sujete la sopladora/aspiradora con la mano derecha
mientras esté en funcionamiento. Consulte las instrucciones
de Functionamiento más adelante en este manual para
conocer la posición adecuada durante el funcionamiento
de la aspiradora y obtener información adicional.
 Nunca coloque objetos dentro de los tubos de la sopladora.
 Sólo utilice el producto de la forma indicada en este manual.
 No utilice la aspiradora sin el saco de la misma instalado;
los desechos lanzados por la herramienta podrían causar
lesiones serias. Siempre cierre completamente el saco de
la aspiradora antes de utilizarla.
 Las hojas impulsoras giratorias pueden ocasionar lesiones
graves. Detenga el motor y asegúrese de que las hojas
impulsoras hayan dejado de girar antes de abrir la puerta de
la aspiradora o de instalar o cambiar los tubos. No ponga la
manos ni ningún objeto dentro de los tubos de la aspiradora
mientras los instala en la unidad.
 Nunca utilice la unidad sin el equipo adecuado instalado.
Cuando utilice la unidad como sopladora, siempre instale
los tubos de soplado. Cuando utilice la unidad como
aspiradora, siempre instale los tubos y el saco de aspiración.
Asegúrese de que el saco de la aspiradora esté con el cierre
completamente cerrado cuando esté funcionado la unidad
para evitar que salgan desechos disparados.
 Evite situaciones que puedan prender fuego al saco de la
aspiradora. No utilice la unidad cerca de llamas abiertas. No
recoja con la aspiradora cenizas calientes de las chimeneas,
parrillas para asar carne, pilas de broza, etc. No recoja con
la aspiradora cigarros desechados a menos que las cenizas
estén completamente apagadas.
 Nunca coloque el soplador en ninguna superficie, excepto
que sea una superficie dura y limpia cuando el motor se
encuentra en funcionamiento. Es posible que la entrada
de aire recoja grava, arena y otros residuos y los arroje al
operador o a los espectadores, lo que puede causar lesiones
serias.
 Para reducir el riesgo de pérdida de oído causada por niveles
de ruido elevados, se requiere ponerse protección auditiva.
 Para reducir el riesgo de lesiones causadas por tocar piezas
giratorias, detenga el motor antes de montar o desmontar
accesorios. Siempre desconecte la bujía antes de efectuar
tareas de mantenimiento o de tocar piezas móviles.
 Nunca use el soplador cerca de fuego, fogones, cenizas
calientes, parilla de barbacoa etc. ya que podría causar que
el fuego se propague.
 No apunte la boquilla de la sopladora hacia personas
o mascotas.
 Este producto está diseñado para uso poco frecuente por
parte de propietarios y otros usuarios ocasionales para
aplicaciones generales como soplar hojas y hierba cortada,
etc. No es para uso prolongado. Los períodos prolongados de
manejo de la unidad pueden causar problemas circulatorios
en las manos del operador debido a la vibración. Para tal uso
puede convenir utilizar una sierra dotada de características
de antivibración.

ABASTECIMIENTO DE COMBUSTIBLE
 El combustible es sumamente inflamable. Tenga precaución
al utilizar la unidad con el fin de disminuir el riesgo de lesiones
serias.
 Guarde la unidad en un lugar frío y bien ventilado, a una
distancia segura de todo equipo generador de chispas o
llamas.
 Guarde el combustible en recipientes diseñados
específicamente para tal fin.
 Solamente reabastezca de combustible la unidad al aire libre
y no fume durante el reabastecimiento.
 Reabastezca de combustible la unidad antes de arrancar el
motor. Nunca retire la tapa del tanque de combustible ni lo
reabastezca mientras esté encendida o caliente la unidad.
 No fume mientras esté mezclando el combustible o
reabasteciendo el tanque.
 Mezcle y guarde el combustible en un recipiente aprobado
para gasolina.
 Mezcle el combustible al aire libre, donde no haya chispas
ni llamas.
 Afloje la tapa del tanque de combustible para aliviar la presión
y para evitar que se escape combustible por la tapa.
 Después de reabastecer de combustible la unidad ponga la
tapa y apriétela firmemente.
 Limpie todo el combustible que se haya derramado de la
unidad. Aléjese por lo menos 9 metros (30 pies) del sitio
de reabastecimiento de combustible antes de encender el
motor.
 Nunca intente en ninguna circunstancia eliminar el
combustible derramado quemándolo.
 Para reducir el riesgo de incendio o de lesiones por
quemadura, maneje con cuidado el combustible. Es
sumamente inflamable.
 Si se derrama combustible, no intente arrancar el motor;
aleje la máquina del área del derramamiento y evite causar
una fuente de ignición hasta que se disipen los vapores del
combustible.
 Vuelva a colocar firmemente la tapa del tanque de
combustible y la del recipiente.
 Vacíe el tanque de combustible en un contenedor apto para
gasolina e inmovilice la unidad antes de transportarla en un
vehículo.
 Al drenar el tanque de combustible, utilice un recipiente
aprobado para combustible y hágalo en un lugar bien
ventilado.
 Busque suelo raso para depositar la unidad, apague el
motor, y permita que se enfríe antes de reabastecerlo de
combustible.
 Guarde estas instrucciones. Consúltelas con frecuencia y
empléelas para instruir a otras personas que puedan utilizar
este producto. Si presta a alguien esta herramienta, facilítele
también las instrucciones.

Página 3 — Español

SÍMBOLOS
Las siguientes palabras de señalización y sus significados tienen el objeto de explicar los niveles de riesgo relacionados
con este producto.

SÍMBOLO

SEÑAL

SIGNIFICADO

PELIGRO:

Indica una situación peligrosa, la cual, si no se evita, causará la muerte
o lesiones serias.

ADVERTENCIA:

Indica una situación peligrosa, la cual, si no se evita, podría causar la
muerte o lesiones serias.

PRECAUCIÓN:

Indica una situación peligrosa, la cual, si no se evita, podría causar lesiones
menores o leves.

AVISO:

(Sin el símbolo de alerta de seguridad) Indica la información que se
considera importante, pero no relacionada con lesiones potenciales (por
ej. en relación a daños a la propiedad).

Es posible que se empleen en este producto algunos de los siguientes símbolos. Le suplicamos estudiarlos y aprender
su significado para mayor seguridad al manejar este producto.
SÍMBOLO

NOMBRE

EXPLICACIÓN

Símbolo de alerta de seguridad

Precauciones para su seguridad.

Lea el manual del operador

Para reducir el riesgo de lesiones, el usuario debe leer y
comprender el manual del operador antes de usar este
­producto.

Protección para los ojos y los
oídos

Siempre póngase protección ocular con protección lateral con
la marca de cumplimiento de la norma ANSI Z87.1 junto con
protección auditiva.

Mantenga alejadas a las personas
presentes.

Mantenga a los circunstantes a una distancia mínima de 15
metros (50 pies).

Rebote

Cualquier objeto lanzado puede rebotar y producir lesiones
personales o daños físicos.

Puerta de aspiración

No utilice la unidad hasta mientras no esté asegurada la
puerta de aspiración.

Cabello largo

Riesgo de succión del cabello largo en la entrada de aire.

Tubos de la sopladora

No utilice la unidad sin los tubos montados en su lugar.

Ropa holgada

Riesgo de succión de la ropa holgada en la entrada de aire.

Gasolina y lubriciante

Use gasolina sin plomo destinada para vehículos con un
­octanaje de 87 [(R + M) / 2] o más. Este producto está
­a ccionado por un motor de dos tiempos y requiere el
premezclado de gasolina y lubriciante para motor de dos
tiempos.
Página 4 — Español

FEATURES
CARACTERÍSTICAS
ESPECIFICACIONES DEL PRODUCTO
Cilindrada del motor. ................................................................................................................................................................ 26 cc
Desempeño de sopladora (en la salida de la boquilla):
Boquilla para barrer
Boquilla de alta velocidad
*MPH............................................................................................. 150.............................................................. 200
*Pies cúb./min............................................................................... 400.............................................................. 150
*Nominal por ANSI B175.2

BOQUILLA DE ALTA VELOCIDAD

FAMILIARÍCESE CON LA SOPLADORA/­
ASPIRADORA

Vea la figura 1.
Para usar este producto con la debida seguridad se debe
comprender la información indicada en la herramienta misma
y en este manual, y se debe comprender también el trabajo
que intenta realizar. Antes de usar este producto, familiarícese
con todas las características de funcionamiento y normas de
seguridad del mismo.

TUBO SOPLADORA Y DE LA BOQUILLA PARA
BARRER
El tubo sopladora y boquilla para barrer pueden montarse sin
necesidad de ninguna herramienta.

La boquilla de alta velocidad es ideal para hojas húmedas
pegajosas. Permite levantar hojas o desechos húmedos de
las superficies duras al utilizar la sopladora.

BOQUILLA PARA BARRER
La boquilla para barrer permite cubrir más área durante
la operación de soplado, aumentando su efectividad ante
montones de hojas y desechos más grandes.

GATILLO DEL ACELERADOR
La sopladora puede utilizarse a cualquier velocidad entre
marcha lenta y máxima velocidad.

ASPIRADORA / TRITURADORA

PALANCA DE CONTROL DE CRUCERO/ ­SEGURO
DEL ACELERADOR

Puede convertir la sopladora en una aspiradora/trituradora
simplemente con un destornillador de cabeza plana.

La característica de palanca de control de crucero / seguro
del acelerador permite utilizar la sopladora sin necesidad de
mantener oprimido el gatillo del acelerador. Para aminorar la
marcha, simplemente empuje hacia adelante la palanca de
control de crucero / seguro del acelerador.

SACO DE LA ASPIRADORA

MOTOR

Esta característica permite al usuario efectuar labores de
limpieza con la aspiradora de cómoda.

La sopladora dispone de un potente motor de 26 cc con
suficiente potencia para manejar hasta los trabajos de soplado
y aspiración más pesados.

El saco de la aspiradora se monta fácilmente en la sopladora
mediante el adaptador correspondiente.

MANGO DE LA ASPIRADORA

TUBOS DE LA ASPIRADORA
Los tubos de la aspiradora pueden instalarse en la sopladora
con un destornillador de cabeza plana.

ARMADO
DESEMPAQUETADO
Este producto requiere armarse.
 Extraiga cuidadosamente de la caja la producto y los
accesorios. Asegúrese de que estén presentes todos los
artículos enumerados en la lista de empaquetado.

 No deseche el material de empaquetado hasta que haya
inspeccionado cuidadosamente la producto y la haya
utilizado satisfactoriamente.
 Si hay piezas dañadas o faltantes, le suplicamos llamar al
1-800-242-4672, donde le brindaremos asistencia.

LISTA DE EMPAQUETADO

ADVERTENCIA:
No utilice este producto si alguna pieza incluida en la Lista
de empaquetado ya está ensamblada al producto cuando
lo desempaqueta. El fabricante no ensambla las piezas de
esta lista en el producto. Éstas deben ser instaladas por
el usuario. El uso de un producto que puede haber sido
ensamblado de forma inadecuada podría causar lesiones
personales graves.
 Inspeccione cuidadosamente la producto para asegurarse
de que no haya sufrido ninguna rotura o daño durante el
transporte.

Sopladora
Tubo superior de la sopladora
Boquilla para barrer
Boquilla de alta velocidad
Tubos superior e inferior de la aspiradora
Tornillos del tubo de la aspiradora (2)
Saco de la aspiradora
Adaptador del saco de la aspiradora
Lubriciante para motor de dos tiempos
Manual del operador

Página 5 — Español

ARMADO
NOTA: Lea y desprenda todas las etiquetas colgadas y
guárdelas con el Manual del operador.

ADVERTENCIA:
Si falta o está dañada alguna pieza, no utilice esta ­producto
sin haber reemplazado la pieza. Usar este producto con
partes dañadas o faltantes puede causar lesiones serias
al operador.

ADVERTENCIA:
No intente modificar este producto ni hacer accesorios
no recomendados para la misma. Cualquier alteración o
modificación constituye maltrato el cual puede causar una
condición peligrosa, y como consecuencia posibles lesiones
corporales serias.

ADVERTENCIA:
Para evitar un arranque accidental que podría causar
lesiones corporales graves, siempre desconecte el cable de
la bujía del motor de la bujía misma al ensamblar las piezas.

INSTALACIÓN DEL SACO DE LA ASPIRADORA

Vea las figuras 5 y 6.
 Quite la boquilla y el tubo superior de la sopladora usando
un destornillador plano para levantar la orejeta de fijación,
girándolos y quitándolos de la salida del alojamiento de la
sopladora.
 Descorra el cierre del saco de la aspiradora y empuje el
adaptador del saco de la aspiradora a través de la abertura
opuesta a la cremallera, como se muestra. El extremo más
ancho del adaptador permanecerá en el interior del saco de
la aspiradora si se instala correctamente.
 Alinee las ranuras realzadas del adaptador del saco con
las orejetas de aseguramiento de la salida del alojamiento
de la sopladora. Empuje el adaptador hacia adentro del
alojamiento y giro asegure la pieza en su lugar.
 Gire el saco de la aspiradora hasta que quede hacia arriba
la correa para el hombro.
 Asegúrese de que esté corrido y cerrado el cierre del saco
de la aspiradora antes de arrancar la unidad.

INSTALACIÓN DE LOS TUBOS DE LA
ASPIRADORA
Vea las figuras 7 y 8.

HERRAMIENTAS NECESARIAS

Vea la figura 2.
Para armar la unidad necesitan el siguiente herramienta (no
incluido o dibujado para escalar):
 Destornillador de punta plana

MONTAJE DE LOS TUBOS DE LA SOPLADORA

Vea las figuras 3 y 4.
 Alinee las orejetas realzadas del alojamiento principal con
las ranuras del tubo superior de la sopladora; déjelas bien
aseguradas únalas con un movimiento de deslizamiento y
con un movimiento de torsión hasta que los tubos enganchen
y queden bloqueados y los símbolos de bloqueo queden
alineados. Verifique el apriete después de una utilización
inicial y efectúe un apriete adicional si es necesario.

AVISO:
Cuando están ensamblados de manera correcta, es
difícil separar los tubos. Si pueden separarse fácilmente
girándolos, los tubos no están bloqueados. Siga girándolos
para unirlos hasta que enganchen y queden bloqueados. Los
tubos que no estén totalmente bloqueados entre sí podrían
separarse al usar la sopladora.
 Para conectar la boquilla para barrer al tubo superior de la
sopladora, alinee las orejetas realzadas del tubo superior
de la sopladora, luego deslícelas al mismo tiempo y gírelas
para ajustarlas. Revise el ajuste luego del uso inicial y vuelva
a ajustar si es necesario.
 Si se desea usar la boquilla de alta velocidad, conéctela a
la boquilla para barrer alineando la orejeta realzada de la
boquilla de alta velocidad con la ranura de la boquilla para
barrer.
 Para quitar los tubos, utilice un destornillador plano para levantar la orejeta de fijación, rote los tubos para desbloquearlos y quítelos de la salida del alojamiento de la sopladora.

ADVERTENCIA:
Contacto de las aspas del propulsor giratorio pueden causar
lesiones serias. Siempre detenga el motor y garantiza que
las hojas giratorias han dejado de girar. antes de abrir la
puerta de la aspiradora o de instalar o cambiar los tubos.
No ponga la manos ni ningún objeto dentro de los tubos de
la aspiradora mientras los instala en la unidad.
Para instalar los tubos de la aspiradora:
 Asegure los tubos superior e inferior de la aspiradora; para
ello, alinee las orejetas de aseguramiento con las ranuras
realzadas.
 Golpee levemente en el suelo el conjunto de los tubos hasta
que los agujeros del tubo inferior estén en la ranura realzada
del tubo superior. Asegúrelos con los tornillos suministrados.
 Oprima la orejeta de la puerta con un destornillador de
cabeza plana y abra la puerta de entrada de la aspiradora.
 Alinee los tornillos montados en la apertura de la aspiradora
con los tornillos ubicados en el conjunto del tubo de la
aspiradora.
 Gire derecho, apriete el tornillo en el tubo superior de la
aspiradora para asegurar a la caja del soplador.
Para desmontar los tubos de la aspiradora:
 Para aflojar los tornillos del tubo superior de la aspiradora,
gírelos a la izquierda.
 Retire del alojamiento de la sopladora el conjunto los tubos
de la aspiradora.
 Cierre firmemente la puerta de la entrada.
 Quite el saco de la aspiradora usando un destornillador
plano para levantar la orejeta de fijación, rote el adaptador
para desbloquearlo y quítelo.

Página 6 — Español

FUNCIONAMIENTO
APLICACIONES

ADVERTENCIA:
No permita que su familarización con este producto lo
vuelva descuidado. Tenga presente que un descuido de
un instante es suficiente para causar una lesión grave.

ADVERTENCIA:
Siempre póngase protección ocular con protección
lateral con la marca de cumplimiento de la norma ANSI
Z87.1 junto con protección auditiva. Si no cumple esta
advertencia, los objetos que salen despedidos pueden
producirle lesiones serias en los ojos.

ADVERTENCIA:
No utilice ningún aditamento o accesorio no recomendado
por el fabricante de este producto. El empleo de
aditamentos o accesorios no recomendandos podría
causar lesiones serias.

Este producto puede emplearse para los fines enumerados
abajo:
 Recoger hojas y otros desechos del jardín
 Recoger hojas y otros desechos en terrazas y caminos
de entrada
 Hojas que limpian con la aspiradora de su césped

COMBUSTIBLES MEZCLADOS CON ETANOL
AVISO:
No utilice combustibles E15 o E85 (ni combustibles
que contengan más de 10 % de etanol) con este
producto. Esto constituye una violación a la ley
federal, dañará la unidad y anulará la garantía.
NOTA: Para mejorar el rendimiento cuando se utilizan
combustibles oxigenados, se recomienda el uso del
lubricante de 2 ciclos Ethanol Shield.

ABASTECIMIENTO Y REABASTECIMIENTO
DE COMBUSTIBLE
ADVERTENCIA:

ADVERTENCIA:
Verifique que todas las protecciones y los tubos estén en
su lugar ante de usar. Si la sopladora se cae, detenga su
funcionamiento y verifique que no se hayan producido
daños. SI alguna protección, pieza o tubo se dañó o falta,
no use la sopladora hasta que haya sido reparada por
un centro de servicio calificado. Usar la sopladora con
protecciones, piezas o tubos dañados o faltantes puede
causar lesiones personales graves o mayores daños a
la sopladora.

AVISO:
El parachispas que acompaña a este producto no ha
sido evaluado por el Servicio Forestal del Departamento
de Agricultura de EE. UU. y no se puede usar en terrenos
forestales de EE. UU. Además, los usuarios del producto
deben cumplir con los reglamentos de prevención de
incendios locales, estatales y federales. Consulte a las
autoridades que correspondan. Póngase en contacto con
el servicio al cliente o un centro de servicio calificado para
comprar un parachispas de repuesto.

AVISO:

La gasolina y sus vapores son altamente inflamables y
explosivos. Maneje con cuidado el producto para evitar
lesiones personales graves y daños a la propiedad.
Manténgalo alejado de fuentes de ignición y llamas
abiertas, utilícelo al aire libre únicamente, no fume y limpie
los derrames inmediatamente.
MEZCLA DE COMBUSTIBLE
Este producto está accionado por un motor de 2 tiempos y
requiere el premezclado de gasolina y lubricante para motor
de dos tiempos. Mezcle previamente gasolina sin plomo y
lubricante para motores de 2 tiempos en un recipiente y de
uso aprobado para gasolina. NO mezcle más producto del
que pueda utilizar en un período de 30 días.
Combustible recomendado: El motor está certificado para
funcionar con gasolina sin plomo destinada para uso automotor.
NOTA: Le recomendamos que utilice el lubricante Ethanol
Shield de primera calidad para motores de 2 tiempos o
cualquier lubricante sintético de alta calidad para motores
de 2 tiempos en este producto. Mezcle a razón de 76 ml
(2,6 oz.) por galón (EE. UU.).
No use lubricante de uso automotor ni lubricante para
motores fuera de borda de 2 tiempos.

Antes de cada uso, inspeccione todo el producto para
detectar partes dañadas, faltantes o sueltas, como
tornillos, tuercas, pernos, tapas, etc. Apriete firmemente
todos los sujetadores y las tapas y no accione este
producto hasta que todas las partes faltantes o dañadas
sean reemplazadas. Póngase en contacto con el servicio
al cliente o con un centro de servicio calificado para
obtener ayuda.
Página 7 — Español

LUBRICANTE DE ALTA CALIDAD PARA
MOTOR DE DOS TIEMPOS
GASOLINA
LUBRICANTE
3,8 litro [1,0 galón (US)]
9,5 litro [2,5 galón (US)]

76 ml (2,6 onzas)
189 ml (6,4 onzas)

FUNCIONAMIENTO
LLENADO DEL TANQUE
 Limpie la superficie situada alrededor de la tapa del
combustible para evitar la contaminación del mismo.
 Afloje lentamente la tapa del tanque de combustible
girándola hacia la izquierda.
 Vierta la mezcla de combustible en el tanque.
 Antes de volver a colocar la tapa del tanque de
combustible, limpie e inspeccione la junta de dicha tapa.
 Vuelva a colocar la tapa del tanque de la gasolina y
apriétela firmemente girándola hacia la derecha.
 Limpie todo el combustible que se haya derramado
del producto.
 Aléjese por lo menos 9 metros (30 pies) del sitio de
reabastecimiento de combustible antes de encender
la unidad.
NOTA: Es normal que salga humo de un motor nuevo al
usarlo por primera vez.

ADVERTENCIA:
Revise la herramienta para ver si tiene fugas de
combustible. De lo contrario puede producirse un
­­
incendio, con el consiguiente riesgo de lesiones serias.

 Tire dela mango del arrancador y cuerda hasta que
empiece a funcionar el motor.
NOTA: Si el motor no arranca, vuelva a la palanca del
anegador en la posición FULL CHOKE y repita los
siguientes pasos.
 Permita que el motor funcione 15 segundos y después
ponga la palanca del anegador en la posición RUN
(funcionamiento).
PARA PARADA EL MOTOR:
 Presione y sostenga el interruptor de parada “ ” hasta
que se detenga el motor.
CALIENTE REINICIA EL MOTOR:
 Coloque la palanca del anegador en la posición RUN.
 Bloquee la palanca de control de crucero/seguro del
acelerador.
 Tire de la mango del arrancador y cuerda hasta que
arranque el motor.
SI NECESITA ASISTENCIA PARA EL ­ARRANQUE ESTE
PRODUCTO:
No devuelva este producto a la tienda donde fue adquirido.
Por favor llame al Departamento de Atención al Cliente para
todo problema que pueda tener.
Si necesita asistencia llame al: 1-800-242-4672

ADVERTENCIA:
Siempre apague el motor antes de llenar el depósito
de combustible. Nunca agregue combustible a una
máquina con el motor caliente o en funcionamiento.
Aléjese al menos 9 metros (30 pies) del sitio de carga
de combustible antes de poner en marcha el motor. No
fume y permanezca alejado de las llamas expuestas y
las chispas. La manipulación insegura del combustible
puede producir lesiones graves.

ARRANQUE Y APAGADO

MANEJO DE LA SOPLADORA
Vea las figuras 10 y 11.

ADVERTENCIA:
Nunca ponga a funcionar la unidad sin tener instalados
los tubos y cerrada firmemente la puerta de aspiración.
El uso de una unidad mal armada puede causar lesiones
personales graves.

AVISO:

Vea la figura 9.
Para el arranque debe colocarse la sopladora en una
superficie plana y despejada.
 Presione lentamente 10 veces la bomba de cebado.
NOTA: Luego de la 10ª vez que oprima, se debe ver el
combustible en la bomba de cebado. Si esto no
sucede, continúe presionando el cebador hasta que vea
combustible en la bomba.
 Coloque la palanca del anegador en la posición FULL
CHOKE (anegación máxima).
 Asegure la palanca de la control de crucero/seguro del
acelerador hasta la posición de máxima aceleración.
 Tire enérgicamente del mango del arrancador y cuerda
hasta que el motor intente arrancar. No tire de la mango
del arrancador y cuerda más de cuatro (4) veces.

Siempre opere el producto respetando todas las leyes y
ordenanzas correspondientes.
 Encienda la sopladora. Consulte el apartado arranque y
apagado, más arriba en este manual. Sujete la sopladora
con el mango superior en la mano derecha.

ADVERTENCIA:
Manténgase alejado de la sopladora siempre y opérela
con el mango en la mano derecha cuando la utilice
como sopladora, manteniendo un espacio libre entre
su cuerpo y el producto. El lateral del silenciador de la
sopladora siempre debe estar alejado de su cuerpo.
Cualquier tipo de contacto con el alojamiento puede
causar quemaduras u otras lesiones corporales graves.

 Coloque la palanca del anegador en la posición HALF
CHOKE (anegación media).
Página 8 — Español

FUNCIONAMIENTO
MANEJO DE LA ASPIRADORA

ADVERTENCIA:

Vea la figura 13.

No coloque la sopladora sobre residuos o grava suelta.
Los residuos pueden ser succionados hacia el interior de
las rejillas de ventilación de la entrada de aire de la unidad
y pueden provocar daños y lesiones corporales graves.
 Para evitar la dispersión de los desechos, apunte la
sopladora hacia los bordes exteriores de un apilamiento
de desechos. Nunca apunte la sopladora directamente
al centro de una pila de desechos.
 Solamente utilice equipo motorizado a horas razonables,
ni temprano en la mañana ni tarde en la noche, cuando
podría molestarse a otras personas. Cumpla con los
horarios establecidos en los reglamentos de la localidad.
 Para reducir el nivel de ruido, limite a uno el número de
equipos utilizados a la vez.
 Conserve agua utilizando sopladores motorizados en
lugar de mangueras para numerosos usos de jardinería,
incluso para canalones, pantallas, patios, parrillas, porches
y jardines.
 Utilice la sopladora a la velocidad menor posible del
acelerador requerida para efectuar el trabajo.
 Revise el equipo antes de utilizarlo, especialmente el
silenciador, así como las entradas y filtros de aire.
 Utilice rastrillos y escobas para aflojar los desechos antes
de utilizar la sopladora.
 En condiciones polvorientas, cuando haya agua
disponible, humedezca levemente las superficies.
 Esté al pendiente de niños, mascotas, ventanas abiertas
o coches recién lavados, y sople la basura de manera
segura.
 Mantenga la sopladora como se muestra en la figura 10
para que el chorro de aire pueda trabajar cerca del suelo.
 Después de utilizar sopladores o cualquier otro equipo,
¡LIMPIE! Deshágase de los desechos correctamente.
 Utilice la boquilla para barrer de la sopladora para tareas
diarias de soplado. Esta boquilla permite cubrir más área
durante la operación de soplado.

PALANCA DE CONTROL DE CRUCERO/
SEGURO DEL ACELERADOR
Vea la figura 12.
El palanca de control de crucero/seguro del acelerador
permite utilizar la sopladora sin tener oprimido el gatillo del
acelerador.

ADVERTENCIA:
Nunca utilice la unidad sin los tubos de la aspiradora, saco
de la aspiradora y mango de la aspiradora instalados. El
uso de una unidad mal armada puede causar lesiones
personales graves.

ADVERTENCIA:
Mantenga el silenciador y todas las superficies calientes
de la sopladora/aspiradora alejadas del cuerpo. La
inobservancia de este punto puede causar lesiones
graves.
 Instale los tubos y el saco de la aspiradora. Consulte los
apartados Armado, más arriba en este manual.
 Encienda la sopladora. Consulte el apartado Arranque
y apagado, más arriba en este manual.
 Colóquese la correa del saco de la aspiradora en el
hombro derecho. Sujete el mango superior con la mano
izquierda y el mango de la aspiradora con la mano
derecha.
 Mueva la sopladora-aspiradora de un lado a otro a lo
largo del borde exterior de los desechos. Para evitar
un taponamiento, no coloque el tubo de la aspiradora
directamente dentro de la pila de desechos.
 Mantenga el motor a una altura superior a la del extremo
de entrada del tubo de la aspiradora.
 Siempre apunte el tubo de la aspiradora pendiente abajo
al trabajar en una colina.
 Para evitar lesiones corporales serias o dañar la unidad,
no recoja piedras, de metal, vidrio roto, botellas u objetos
similares.
 Si se tapan los tubos de la aspiradora, pare el motor,
s’assurer que l’aubage de la roue a cessé de tourner,
y desconecte el cable de la bujía antes de despejar la
obstrucción.
 Retire de la sopladora los tubos de la aspiradora y retire
los desechos del alojamiento de la hélice. Retire el saco
y limpie el tubo. Puede ser necesario una vara pequeña o
un palo par limpiar el tubo en toda su longitud. Asegúrese
de habar retirado todos los desechos antes de volver a
montar los tubos de la aspiradora.

 Para accionar, tire hacia usted de la palanca de control de
crucero/seguro del acelerador y deténgase en la marca
deseada del acelerador.
 Para quitar, empuje palanca de control de crucero/seguro
del acelerador del mismo totalmente hacia la parte frontal
de la unidad.
Página 9 — Español

MANTENIMIENTO
Cualquier establecimiento o técnico de reparaciones
calificado puede realizar el mantenimiento normal, el
reemplazo o la reparación de los dispositivos y sistemas
de control de emisiones, con repuestos originales o
equivalentes. Un centro de servicio autorizado deberá
realizar las reparaciones y el retiro del producto que cubra
la garantía; póngase en contacto con el servicio al cliente
para obtener ayuda.

ADVERTENCIA:
Antes de inspeccionar, limpiar o dar servicio a la máquina,
apague el motor, espere a que se detengan todas las
piezas en movimiento, desconecte el cable de la bujía y
aléjelo de ésta. El incumplimiento de cualquiera de estas
instrucciones puede causar lesiones serias.

LIMPIEZA LA FILTRO DE AIRE

Vea las figuras 14 y 15.
Para obtener un desempeño apropiado y una larga vida útil
de la unidad, mantenga limpio el filtro de aire.
 Para retirar la tapa del filtro de aire, gire el selector hacia
la izquierda mientras tira suavemente la tapa.
 Enjuague el filtro con agua limpia.
 Oprima suavemente el filtro hasta quitar el exceso de
agua. Reemplace el filtro.
 Coloque la tapa del filtro de aire nuevamente en la
unidad. Gire el selector hacia la izquierda hasta asegurar
la tapa.

LIMPIEZA DEL ORIFICIO DE ESCAPE, DEL
SILENCIADOR Y PARACHISPAS
AVISO:

ADVERTENCIA:
Siempre póngase protección ocular con la marca
de cumplimiento de la norma ANSI Z87.1 junto con
protección para los oídos. La inobservancia de esta
advertencia puede permitir que los objetos lanzados
hacia los ojos y otros provocarle lesiones graves.

ADVERTENCIA:
Al dar servicio a la unidad, sólo utilice piezas de repuesto
idénticas. El empleo de piezas diferentes podría causar
un peligro o dañar el producto.

AVISO:
Inspeccione periódicamente todo el producto para
detectar partes dañadas, faltantes o sueltas, como
tornillos, tuercas, pernos, tapas, etc. Apriete firmemente
todos los sujetadores y las tapas y no accione este
producto hasta que todas las partes faltantes o dañadas
sean reemplazadas. Un centro de servicio autorizado
deberá realizar las reparaciones y el retiro del producto
que cubra la garantía; póngase en contacto con el
servicio al cliente para obtener ayuda.

MANTENIMIENTO GENERAL
Evite el empleo de solventes al limpiar piezas de plástico.
La mayoría de los plásticos son susceptibles a diferentes
tipos de solventes comerciales y pueden resultar dañados.
Utilice paños limpios para eliminar la suciedad, el polvo, el
lubriciante, la grasa, etc.

ADVERTENCIA:
No permita en ningún momento que fluidos para frenos,
gasolina, productos a base de petróleo, lubriciantes
penetrantes, etc., lleguen a tocar las piezas de plástico.
Las sustancias químicas pueden dañar, debilitar o destruir
el plástico, lo cual a su vez puede producir lesiones
corporales serias.

El parachispas que acompaña a este producto no ha sido
evaluado por el Servicio Forestal del Departamento de
Agricultura de EE. UU. y no se puede usar en terrenos
forestales de EE. UU. Además, los usuarios del producto
deben cumplir con los reglamentos de prevención de
incendios locales, estatales y federales. Consulte a las
autoridades que correspondan. Póngase en contacto con
el servicio al cliente o un centro de servicio calificado para
comprar un parachispas de repuesto.
NOTA: Dependiendo del tipo de combustible utilizado, el
tipo y la cantidad de lubricante utilizado, o las condiciones
de funcionamiento en particular, la abertura de escape, el
silenciador y/o el parachispas pueden resultar obstruidos
con depósitos de carbón. Si observa alguna pérdida de
potencia en su herramienta con motor de gasolina, quizá
sea necesario eliminar dichos depósitos para restaurar
el rendimiento. Recomendamos enfáticamente que este
servicio lo realicen únicamente los técnicos de servicio
calificados.
Es necesario limpiar o reemplazar el parachispas cada
50 horas o anualmente para asegurarse del buen funcionamiento de la unidad. Los parachispas pueden estar instalados
en diferentes posiciones dependiendo del modelo del cual se
trate. Póngase en contacto con el servicio al cliente o con un
centro de servicio calificado para obtener ayuda.

ADVERTENCIA:
Nunca utilice la sopladora sin un silenciador equipado con
un amortiguador de chispas en el lugar. De lo contrario
puede producirse un incendio, con el consiguiente riesgo
de lesiones serias.

SACO DE LA ASPIRADORA
Si se ensucia el saco se reduce el rendimiento de la unidad.
Para limpiar el saco, vuélvalo al revés y sacúdalo. Limpie el
saco en agua jabonosa por lo menos una vez al año. Para
obtener un saco de repuesto, vea Cómo obtener piezas de
repuesto en la página posterior de este manual.

Página 10 — Español

MANTENIMIENTO
TAPA DEL TANQUE DE COMBUSTIBLE, TANQUE
Y CONDUCTO
ADVERTENCIA:
Revise la herramienta para ver si tiene fugas de
combustible. Una tapa del tanque de combustible, tanque
y conducto con fugas constituye un riesgo de incendio
y debe reemplazarse inmediatamente. Si encuentra
fugas, corrija el problema antes de utilizar la herramienta.
De lo contrario puede producirse un incendio, con el
consiguiente riesgo de lesiones serias.
La tapa del tanque de combustible contiene un filtro que
no necesita mantenimiento y una válvula de retención. Un
filtro de combustible obstruido puede causar un desempeño
deficiente del motor. Si mejora el desempeño al aflojar
la tapa del tanque de combustible, es posible que esté
defectuosa la válvula de retención o quizá esté obstruido
el filtro. Reemplace la tapa del tanque de combustible si es
necesario.

REEMPLAZO DE LA BUJÍA
En este motor se emplea una bujía Ryobi AC00160A,
Champion RCJ-6Y o equivalente con una separación
interelectródica de 0,63 mm (0,025 pulg.). Utilice un repuesto
recomendados o equivalentes y cámbielo anualmente.

ALMACENAMIENTO DE LA PRODUCTO
 Limpie todo material extraño de la producto. Almacene
la unidad en un espacio bien ventilado inaccesible a los
niños. Evite que la unidad entre en contacto con agentes
corrosivos como las sustancias químicas para el jardín y
las sales para derretir el hielo.
 Cumpla todos los reglamentos federales y municipales
para el almacenamiento y manejo seguro de la gasolina.
Al almacenar 1 mes o más:
 Drene todo el combustible del tanque en un recipiente
de uso aprobado para gasolina. Accione el motor hasta
que se apague.

OPERACIÓN DEL MOTOR A ALTITUDES
­ELEVADAS
Su motor está configurado para funcionar por debajo de
los 609,6 m (2 000 pies) de altitud medidos en la fábrica. Su
motor se debe volver a configurar para funcionar por sobre
los 609,6 m (2 000 pies) de altitud. Hacer funcionar el motor
con la configuración equivocada a determinada altura puede
aumentar las emisiones, reducir la eficiencia del combustible,
perjudicar el funcionamiento y provocar daños irreversibles al
motor. Los motores que estén configurados para funcionar en
una altitud alta no se pueden utilizar en condiciones de altitud
estándar. Un centro de servicio calificado debe asegurarle
que su motor está debidamente configurado para funcionar
donde usted se encuentre.

ESTE PRODUCTO SE FABRICÓ CON UN SILENCIADOR CATALÍTICO
¡Felicidades! Acaba de realizar una inversión para proteger el medio ambiente. A fin de conservar el nivel de emisiones original
de este producto, le suplicamos consultar el apartado sobre mantenimiento que aparece abajo.

PROGRAMA DE MANTENIMIENTO
Pieza de
mantenimiento

Inspeccionar
cada vez antes
de usar la unidad

Limpiar
cada 5 horas
de uso

Reemplazar cada
25 horas de uso
o cada año

Reemplácelo
cada
50 Horas

* CONJUNTO DE SILENCIADOR CATALÍTICO................................................................................................................................ X
PANTALLA PARACHISPAS. ............................................................................................................................................................ X
* CONJUNTO DEL FILTRO DE AIRE
		 incluye:
		 Filtro..........................................................................................................X
* CONJUNTO DEL CARBURADOR
		 incluye:
		 Juntas..........................................................X
* CONJUNTO DEL TANQUE DE COMBUSTIBLE
		 incluye:
		 Conductos de combustible. ........................X
		 Tapa del tanque de combustible. ................X
		 Filtro de combustible............................................................................................................................ X
* CONJUNTO DEL ENCENDIDO
		 incluye:
		 Bujía...................................................................................................................................................... X
* AVISO: EL USO DE COMPONENTES DE CONTROL DE EMISIONES QUE NO SEAN LOS DISEÑADO PARA ESTA UNIDAD INFRINGE LA
LEGISLACIÓN FEDERAL.

Página 11 — Español

CORRECCIÓN DE PROBLEMAS
PROBLEMA
El motor no arranca.

CAUSA POSIBLE

SOLUCIÓN

No hay combustible en el tanque.

Llene el tanque.

Falló o tiene corto la bujía.

Reemplace la bujía.

Se rompió la bujía (se rajó la porcelana Reemplace la bujía.
o se rompieron los electrodos).
El cable de ignición tiene corto, está Reemplace el cable de ignición o
roto o desconectado de la bujía.
conéctelo a la bujía.
El sistema de ignición no funciona.
Cuesta trabajo arrancar el motor.

Comuníquese con un centro de servicio
calificado.

Hay agua en la gasolina o está Drene todo el sistema y reabastézcalo
descompuesta la mezcla de combustible. de combustible fresco.
Hay demasiado lubriciante en la mezcla Vacíe el sistema y reabastézcalo de la
de combustible.
mezcla correcta.
El anegador está demasiado abierto Ajuste el anegador según sea necesario.
o cerrado.
Está débil la chispa de la bujía.

Comuníquese con un centro de servicio
calificado.

Le falta potencia al motor

Está tapado el filtro de aire.

Limpie el filtro de aire. Consulte la
sección Limpieza del filtro de aire
previamente en este manual.

El motor se recalienta.

No hay suficiente lubriciante en la Mezcle el combustible como se describe
mezcla de combustible.
en las instrucciones de arranque.

Si el problema persiste después de probar las soluciones mencionadas arriba, contacto con el servicio al cliente o con
un centro de servicio calificado para solicitar asistencia.

AVISO:
Como propietario equipo, usted es responsable de la que realice el mantenimiento obligatorio que se indica en la sección
Mantenimiento. Le recomendamos que guarde todos los comprobantes relacionados con el mantenimiento de su equipo.
Negligencia o falta del mantenimiento indicado puede aumentar las emisiones, reducir la eficiencia del combustible,
perjudicar el funcionamiento, provocar daños irreversibles al motor y anulará su garantía.

Este producto tiene una garantía limitada de dos años para fines
personales, familiares o domésticos (90 días para usos trabajo
o comercial). Para obtener detalles sobre la garantía, diríjase a
www.homelite.com o llame sin cargo al 1-800-242-4672.

Página 12 — Español

NOTES / NOTAS

Page / Página 13

26cc BLOWER/VACUUM
OPERATOR’S MANUAL
MANUEL D’UTILISATION
MANUAL DEL OPERADOR

SOUFFLANTE /ASPIRATEUR DE 26 cc
SOPLADORA /ASPIRADORA DE 26 cc
UT26HBV/UT26HBVVNM/
UT26HBVEMC/ UT26HBVEMCVNM

SERVICE
For parts or service, contact your Homelite service dealer. Please call ­1-800-242-4672 or visit us online at www.homelite.com
for assistance. Be sure to provide all relevant information when you call or visit. A replacement parts list is also available online.

REPAIR PARTS
The item, manufacturing, and serial numbers of this product are found on a plate or label attached to the housing. Please
record these numbers in the spaces provided below.
ITEM NO.__________________________________________________________
MANUFACTURING NO._____________________________________________
SERIAL NO._ ______________________________________________________

DÉPANNAGE
Pour tout entretien ou réparation du produit, contacter le centre de réparations Homelite. Pour obtenir de l’aide, téléphoner au
1-800-242-4672 ou visiter notre site www.homelite.com. Veiller à fournir toutes les informations pertinentes lors de tout appel
téléphonique ou visite. Une liste des pièces de rechange est également disponible en ligne.

PIÈCES DE RECHANGE
Le numéro d’article, le numéro de fabrication et le numéro de série se trouve sur une plaquette ou étiquette placée sur le bâti.
Noter les numéros dans l’espaces ci-dessous.
NUMÉRO D’ARTICLE_ _____________________________________________
NUMÉRO DE FABRICATION________________________________________
NUMÉRO DE SÉRIE________________________________________________

SERVICIO
Para obtener piezas o servicio, comuníquese con el centro de servicio de Homelite. Para asistencia, le suplicamos llamar al
1-800-242-4672 o visitar nuestro sitio en la red mundial, en la dirección www.homelite.com. Asegúrese de proporcionar todos
los datos pertinentes al llamar o al presentarse personalmente. Asegúrese de proporcionar todos los datos pertinentes al
llamar o al presentarse personalmente.

PIEZAS DE REPUESTO
El número de artículo, el número de fabricación y el número de serie de este producto se encuentra en una placa o etiqueta
pegada a la caja del motor. Le recomendamos anotar los números en los espacios suministrado abajo.
NÚMERO DE ARTÍCULO_ __________________________________________
NÚMERO DE FABRICACIÓN________________________________________
NÚMERO DE SERIE________________________________________________

HOMELITE CONSUMER PRODUCTS, INC.
P.O. Box 1288, Anderson, SC 29622
1-800-242-4672 • www.homelite.com

991000662
06-25-19 (REV:05)

