ITEM #0506586

20 IN., 40 V LITHIUM-ION DUAL BLADE MOWER
MODEL #KM2040X-06
Français p. 23

KOBALT® and the K Design® are registered
trademarks of LF, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Español p. 45

ATTACH YOUR RECEIPT HERE
Serial Number

Purchase Date

Questions, problems, missing parts? Before returning to your retailer, call our customer
service department at 1-888-3KOBALT (1-888-356-2258), 8 a.m. - 8 p.m., EST,
Monday - Friday.
kobalttools.com

AB13811C
1

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Product Specifications........................................................................................................... 2
Package Contents................................................................................................................. 3
Safety Information................................................................................................................. 6
Preparation ........................................................................................................................... 11
Assembly Instructions .......................................................................................................... 13
Operating Instructions .......................................................................................................... 16
Care and Maintenance ......................................................................................................... 18
Troubleshooting.....................................................................................................................20
Warranty................................................................................................................................ 21
Replacement Parts List ........................................................................................................ 22
PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS
SPECIFICATIONS
Battery type

40 V Lithium-ion

Charge time

1 hour, for 40 V 73 Wh battery
2 hours, for 40 V 146 Wh battery

No-load speed

5,000 RPM

Height adjustments

1-3/8- 3-3/8 in. (3.5 - 8.5 cm)

Functions

2-in-1: Mulch or rear bag

Unit weight (without battery)

39.48 lbs. / 17.91 kg

kobalttools.com

2

PACKAGE CONTENTS

C

B

A

E
D

PART
A
B
C
D
E

DESCRIPTION
Lawn mower
Mulching plug
Charger
Grass catcher bag
Battery 40 V 2ah
Battery 40 V 4ah

QUANTITY
1
1
1
1
1
1

kobalttools.com

3

SYMBOLS
Some of the following symbols may be used on this product. Please study them and learn their meaning.
Proper interpretation of these symbols will allow you to operate the product better and safer.
SYMBOLS
V
A
Hz
W
Hrs.

DESIGNATION / EXPLANATION
Volts
Amperes
Hertz
Watts
Hours
Precautions that involve your safety.
To reduce the risk of injury, user must read and understand user’s
manual before using this product.
Wear eye protection when operating this equipment.
Do not expose machine to rain or wet conditions.
Pay attention that bystanders are not injured through foreign
objects thrown from the mower.
Keep all bystanders (especially children and pets) at least 50 ft.
away from the work area.
Keep hands and feet away from blade and cutting area.
Switch off and remove isolator key before adjusting, cleaning and
before leaving the product unattended for any period.
Do not operate on inclines greater than 15°. Mow across the face
of slopes, never up and down.
Beware of electric shock hazard.
Wait for all components of machine to have completely stopped
before touching them.
The charger is intended for indoor use only.

kobalttools.com

4

SYMBOLS
Save these Instructions
The following signal words and meanings are intended to explain the levels of risk associated with this product.
SYMBOL

SIGNAL

MEANING
an imminently hazardous situation, which, if not avoided, will
DANGER Indicates
result in death or serious injury.
a potentially hazardous situation, which, if not avoided, could
WARNING Indicates
result in death or serious injury.
a potentially hazardous situation, which, if not avoided, may result
CAUTION Indicates
in minor or moderate injury.
Safety Alert Symbol) Indicates a situation that may result in
CAUTION (Without
property damage.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Waste electrical products should not be disposed of with household waste. Please recycle
where facilities exist. Check with your local authority or retailer for recycling advice.
The battery contains material which is hazardous to you and the environment. It must be
removed and disposed of separately at a facility that accepts lithium-ion batteries.

kobalttools.com

5

SAFETY INFORMATION
General safety rules
Read all instructions carefully
•

WARNING
This symbol indicates important safety instructions. If these instructions are not followed, it could
endanger the personal safety and/or property of the operator and others. Read and understand all
instructions in this manual before attempting to operate the mower. Failure to comply with these
instructions may result in personal injury.

•

Basic safety precautions should always be followed when using electric lawn mowers, in order to
reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, and personal injury.

•

Use of this mower should be restricted to individuals who have read and understood and will follow
the warnings and instructions that are printed in this manual and on the mower.

DANGER
This mower was built to be operated according to the rules for safe operation that are contained
in this manual. As with any type of power equipment, carelessness or error on the part of the operator
can result in serious injury. This mower is capable of amputating body parts and throwing objects.
Failure to observe the following safety rules could result in serious injury or death.

kobalttools.com

6

SAFETY INFORMATION
WARNING
• To avoid serious personal injury, do not attempt to use this product until you have read this
Owner’s Manual thoroughly and understand it completely. If you do not understand the warnings and
instructions in this Owner’s Manual, do not use this product. Call 1-888-356-2258 for assistance.
The operation of any power tool can result in foreign objects being thrown into your eyes,
which can result in severe eye damage. Before beginning power tool operation, always wear
safety goggles or safety glasses with side shields and, when needed, a full face shield. We
recommend a wide vision safety mask for use over eyeglasses or standard safety glasses
with side shields. Always use eye protection which is marked to comply with ANSI Z87.1.
WARNING (Proposition 65)
Some dust created by power sanding, sawing, grinding, drilling and other construction activities
contains chemicals known to the state of California to cause cancer, birth defects or other
reproductive harm. Some examples of these chemicals are:
• Lead from lead-based paints,
• Crystalline silica from bricks and cement and other masonry products, and
• Arsenic and chromium from chemically-treated lumber.
Your risk from these exposures varies, depending on how often you do this type of work. To reduce
your exposure to these chemical: work in a well ventilated area, and work with approved safety
equipment, such as those dust masks that are specially designed to filter out microscopic particles.
SAFETY INFORMATION
Carefully read all instructions on the mower and in the manual before attempting to assemble and
operate the mower. Keep this manual in a safe place for future reference, and consult it regularly.
• Become familiar with all controls and their proper operation. Know how to stop the mower and how
to disengage the power in an emergency.
• In order to avoid contact with the blade or injury caused by a thrown object, stay in the operating
zone behind the handles, and keep children and bystanders at least 50 ft. (15 m) away from the
mower while it is in operation. Stop the motor immediately if someone enters the mowing area.
• Thoroughly inspect the area where the mower is to be used. Remove all stones, sticks, wire,
bones, toys, and other objects that could be tripped over or thrown by the blade. Thrown objects
can cause serious personal injury.
• Plan your mowing pattern in such a way as to avoid discharging material toward roads, sidewalks,
bystanders, etc. Do not discharge material against a wall or obstruction. Doing so may cause the
discharged material to ricochet back toward the operator.
• Always wear proper eye protection that complies with ANSI Z87.1 in order to protect your eyes,
along with hearing protection, while operating or performing any adjustment or repair. Thrown
objects that ricochet can cause serious eye injury.
• Always wear a face mask or a dust mask when operating the mower in a dusty environment.
• Dress properly. Do not wear loose clothing or jewelry that can get caught in moving parts. The
wearing of protective gloves and safety footwear is recommended.
kobalttools.com

7

SAFETY INFORMATION
• Many injuries occur as a result of the mower being pulled over the operator’s foot during a fall
caused by slipping or tripping. Do not operate this mower in bare feet, or while wearing sandals or
lightweight (e.g., canvas) shoes. Do not hold on to the mower if you are falling. Release the handle
immediately.
• Never pull the mower back toward you while you are walking. If you must back the mower away
from a wall or an obstruction, first look down and behind in order to avoid tripping, and then follow
these steps:
• Step back from the mower in order to fully extend your arms.
• Be sure that you are well balanced.
• Pull the mower back slowly.
• Do not use the mower for any job except that for which it is intended. Do not force the mower.
• Do not operate the mower while under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
• Stay Alert: Do not operate the mower when you are tired. Pay attention to what you are doing. Use
common sense.
• Do not put hands or feet near rotating parts or under the cutting deck. Contact with the blade can
amputate hands and feet.
• Do not attempt to adjust the wheels or the cutting height while the motor is running.
• Avoid dangerous environments. Do not operate the mower in the rain or in wet or damp grass.
• Mow only in daylight or in good artificial light. Do not rush a mowing job.
• Stop the blade when crossing gravel driveways, walkways, or roads.
• If the mower starts to vibrate excessively, stop the motor, remove the battery and check for the
cause immediately. Vibration is generally a warning of trouble.
• Stop the motor and wait until the blade comes to a complete stop before removing the grass
catcher or unclogging the chute. The cutting blade will continue to rotate for a few seconds after
the motor is shut off. Do not place any part of your body in the blade area until you are sure that
the blade has stopped rotating.
• Never operate mower without a proper trail shield, discharge cover, grass catcher, switch control,
or other safety device in place and in working order. Do not operate the mower with damaged
safety devices. Doing so can result in injury.
• Don’t force lawn mower. It will do the job better and safer at the rate for which it was designed.
• Store idle lawn mower indoors. When not in use, lawn mower should be stored in an indoor dry
and locked-up place, out of reach of children.
• Maintain lawn mower. Keep cutting blades sharp and clean for best and safest performance.
• If lawn mower strikes a foreign objects follow these steps:
• Stop lawn mower, release the switch.
• Remove the battery.
• Inspect for damage.
• Repair any damage before restarting and operating the lawn mower.
• Do not charge the battery in the rain or in wet locations.
• Remove battery before servicing, cleaning or removing material from lawn mower.

kobalttools.com

8

SAFETY INFORMATION
Child safety
Tragic accidents can occur if the operator is not aware of the presence of children.
• Keep children out of the mowing area and under the watchful care of a responsible adult.
• Do not allow children under the age of 14 to operate this mower. Children who are 14 years of age
and older must read and understand the operating instructions and safety rules in this manual, and
must be trained and supervised by a parent.
• Stay alert, and turn the mower off if a child or any other person enters the mowing area.
• Look behind and down for small children before and while moving backwards.
• Use extreme care when approaching blind corners, doorways, shrubs, trees, or other objects that
may obscure your view of a child who may run into the path of the mower.
Battery and charger
CAUTION
Use only 40 V Kobalt approved replacement batteries, other batteries may cause injury or damage to
the mower.
Battery safety rules
• Battery tools do not have to be plugged into an electrical outlet; therefore, they are always in
operating condition. Be aware of possible hazards when not using your battery tool or when
changing accessories. Following this rule will reduce the risk of electric shock, fire, or serious
personal injury.
• Do not place battery tools or their batteries near fire or heat. This will reduce the risk of explosion
and possibly injury.
• Do not crush, drop or damage battery. Do not use a battery or charger that has been dropped or
received a sharp blow. A damaged battery is subject to explosion. Properly dispose of a dropped or
damaged battery immediately.
• Do not charge battery in a damp or wet location. Following this rule will reduce the risk of electric
shock.
• For best results, your battery should be charged in a location where the temperature is more than
45°F but less than 104°F. To reduce the risk of serious personal injury, do not store outside or in
vehicles.
• Under extreme usage or temperature conditions, battery leakage may occur. If liquid comes in
contact with your skin, wash immediately with soap and water. If liquid gets into your eyes, flush
them with clean water for at least 10 minutes, then seek immediate medical attention. Following
this rule will reduce the risk of serious personal injury.
• When battery is not in use, keep it away from other metal objects like: paper clips, coins, keys,
nails, screws, or other small metal objects that can make a connection from one terminal to
another. Shorting the battery terminals together may cause sparks, burns, or a fire.
• Always remove battery from your tool when you are assembling parts, making adjustments,
cleaning, or when not in use. Removing battery will prevent accidental starting that could cause
serious personal injury.
• Always remove battery before storing the device. When battery becomes fully charged, unplug the
charger from the power supply and remove the battery from the charger.

kobalttools.com

9

SAFETY INFORMATION
• Keep battery dry, clean, and free from oil and grease. Always use a clean cloth when cleaning.
Never use brake fluids, gasoline, petroleum-based products, or any solvents to clean battery.
WARNING
When transporting or servicing unit, always remove the battery.
Charger safety rules
• Charge the battery in a dry area that is protected from the weather. Do not expose the mower or
the charger to rain. Do not charge the battery in a wet location. Operate the battery charger in
temperatures between 45° and 104°F. In order to reduce the risk of electric shock, use only the
charger that is provided by the manufacturer to charge the battery.
• Do not abuse the charger cord. Never carry the charger by the cord. Do not disconnect the
charger from the outlet by pulling the charger cord.
• Do not use a damaged charger. Replace the charger cords or the charger immediately.
• Keep the mower and the charger away from water, heat sources (radiators, heaters, stoves, etc.),
flames, and chemicals.
• Make sure the battery is secured in the charger.
• The battery will become slightly warm to the touch while charging. This is normal and does not
indicate a problem.
• Do not place the charger and battery in an area of extreme heat or cold. They will work best at
normal room temperature.
• When batteries become fully charged, unplug the charger from the power supply and remove the
battery.
SAFETY INFORMATION
Slope gauge
WARNING
Slopes are a major factor related to accidents involving slips and falls, which can result in severe
injury. Operating the mower on a slope requires extra caution. If you feel uneasy on a slope, do not
mow it. For your safety, use the slope gauge that is included as part of this manual to measure slopes
before operating this unit on a sloped or hilly area.
• Mow across the face of a slope and never up and down. Exercise extreme caution when changing
direction on a slope.
• Watch for holes, ruts, rocks, hidden objects, or bumps that may cause a slip or a trip. Tall grass
can hide obstacles.
• Always be sure of your footing. If you feel like you are losing your balance, release the bail switch
immediately. The blade will stop rotating within 3 seconds.
• Do not mow near drop-offs, ditches, or embankments, because you could lose your footing or
balance.
• Do not mow a slope that has an angle of greater than 15°, as determined using the slope gauge.
• Do not mow wet or damp grass. Unstable footing can cause slipping.

kobalttools.com

10

SAFETY INFORMATION
SIGHT AND HOLD THIS LEVEL WITH A VERTICAL TREE
A POWER POLE
A CORNER OF A BUILDING
OR A FENCE POST
FOL

DO

ND

OTT

ED L

INE,

REP

RES

ENT

ING

A 15
° SL

OPE

WARNING
Do not mow a slope that has an angle greater than 15° (a rise of approximately 2-1/2 ft. every 10 ft.
Mow across the face of a slope, and never up and down.
PREPARATION
Before beginning assembly of product, make sure all parts are present. Compare parts with package
contents list and hardware contents list. If any part is missing or damaged, do not attempt to
assemble the product.
UNPACKING
• Carefully remove the product and any accessories from the box. Make sure that all items listed in
the packing list are included.
• Inspect the product carefully to make sure no breakage or damage occurred during shipping.
• Do not discard the packing material until you have carefully inspected and satisfactorily operated
the product.
• If any parts are damaged or missing, please call 1-888-356-2258 for assistance.
Estimated Assembly Time: 5 minutes

kobalttools.com

11

KNOW YOUR MOWER
L

K

E

G
F

H

J

N
M

I

O

PART
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O

DESCRIPTION
Upper handle
Lower handle
Handle knobs
Cam locks
Height adjustment lever
Battery door
Start button
Bail switch
Lower handle locks
Rear discharge cover
Battery release button

QUANTITY
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
kobalttools.com

12

ASSEMBLY INSTRUCTIONS
WARNING
• If any parts are damaged or missing do not operate this product until the parts are replaced. Using a
product with damaged or missing parts could result in serious personal injury.
• Do not attempt to modify this product or create accessories not recommended for use with this
product. Any such alteration or modification is misuse and could result in a hazardous condition
leading to possible serious personal injury.
• Do not insert battery until assembly is complete and you are ready to mow. Failure to comply could
result in accidental starting and possible serious personal injury.
• To prevent accidental starting that could cause serious personal injury, always remove the battery
from the product when assembling parts.
• Never operate the mower without the proper safety devices in place and working. Never operate the
mower with damaged safety devices. Operation of this product with damaged or missing parts could
result in serious personal injury.
1. Unfolding and adjusting handle assembly
a. To raise handle assembly:
• Open the lower handle locks (M).
• Pull up and back on the lower handle (F) until it is
aligned with the slot between the cam locks (M) and
the mower housing.
Note: If the lower handle is difficult to move, turn the
lower cam locks (M) counterclockwise to free the
handle.
• To secure the lower handle (F) in place, close the
lower handle locks (M).
Note: If the lower handle is loose or does not seat
completely in the slot, turn the lower cam locks (M)
clockwise to secure the handle.
• Open the upper cam locks (H).
• Pull up and back on the upper handle to raise it into
operating position. Make sure that the lower handle
is seated in the grooves at the bottom of the upper
handle.
• To secure the upper handle in place, close the
upper cam locks (H).
Note: If the upper handle is loose or separated from
the lower handle, tighten the knobs on the upper
handle locks by turning them clockwise.

1a

H

F

M

kobalttools.com

13

ASSEMBLY INSTRUCTIONS
b. To lower the handle assembly:
• Open the upper cam locks (H).
Note: If the handle lock is difficult to open, loosen
the knobs on the upper handle locks by turning them
counterclockwise.
• Lower the upper handle.
• Open the lower handle lock (M).
• Push outward on each side of the lower handle until it
is free from the slot. Then, fold the handle to the front
of the unit. Avoid pinching or trapping any cables.

1b

2. Installing the mulching plug
(for mulching operation)
Note: When using the mulching plug (B), do not install
the grass catcher.
• Remove battery.
• Lift and hold the rear discharge door (N).
• Grasp the mulching plug (B) by its handle and insert it
at a slight angle.
• Push the mulching plug (B) securely into place.
• Lower the rear discharge door.
• Reinstall battery when you are ready to mow.

2

3. Installing the grass catcher
(for rear bagging operation)

3

M

N

B

Note: When using the grass catcher (D), do not install
the mulching plug.
•

Remove battery.

•

Lift the rear discharge door (N).

•

Lift the grass catcher (D) by its handle and place under
the rear discharge door (N) so that the hooks on the
grass catcher are seated onto the slots on the
mower housing.

•

Release the rear discharge door (N).

•

Reinstall battery when you are ready
to mow.

N

D

kobalttools.com

14

ASSEMBLY INSTRUCTIONS
4. To install battery
WARNING: Always remove battery from your tool
when you are assembling parts, making adjustments,
cleaning, or when not in use. Removing battery will
prevent accidental starting that could cause serious
personal injury.
• Raise the battery cover (J).
• Place the battery in the mower.
• Align raised ribs on battery with grooves in the
mower’s battery port.
• Push down into battery compartment until the battery
clicks into place.
• Lower the battery cover.

4
O
J

WARNING: Make sure the latch on top of the battery with battery release button snaps in place
and the battery is fully seated and secure in the mower’s battery port before beginning operation.
Failure to securely seat the battery could cause the battery to fall out, resulting in serious
personal injury.
To remove battery
• Raise the battery cover.
• Press the battery release button (O) on the mower. This will cause the battery to raise out of the
tool slightly.
• Remove battery from the mower.

kobalttools.com

15

OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS
1. Starting/stopping the mower
• Raise the battery cover.
• Install battery.
• Lower the battery cover.
• Press and hold the start button (K). Pull the bail switch (L)
toward the handle and release the button to start the mower.
• To stop the mower, release the bail.
Note: Power save feature automatically adjusts the
cutting speed of the blades to match the application to
give the best possible cut while maximizing run time
and battery life.

1

2. Setting blade height
When shipped, the wheels on the mower are set to
a low-cutting position. Before using the mower for
the first time, raise the cutting position to the height
best suited for your lawn. The average lawn should
be between 1-1/2 in. to 2 in. during cool months and
between 2 in. and 3-1/4 in. during hot months.
To adjust the blade height:
• To raise the blade height, grasp the height
adjustment lever and move it toward the front of the
mower.
• To lower the blade height, grasp the height
adjustment lever and move it toward the back of the
mower.

2

L

K

Mowing tips
Note: A sharp blade will greatly enhance the performance of the mower, especially when cutting high
grass. Be sure to check the blade and to sharpen it at least once per year.
• Verify that the lawn is free of stones, sticks, wires, and other objects that could damage the blades
or the motor. These objects could be accidentally thrown by the mower in any direction, and could
cause serious personal injury to the operator and to others. In order to prevent electric shock, do
not operate the mower in damp or wet conditions.
• Do not mow in circles. Travel back and forth across the lawn.
• When cutting thick grass, reduce walking speed in order to allow for a more effective cut and a
proper discharge of the clippings.
• For a healthy lawn, always cut off one-third or less of the total length of the grass. The average
lawn should be approximately 1-1/2 to 2 in. (3.8 cm to 5 cm) long during cool months, and
between 2 in. to 3-1/4 in. (5 cm to 8.3 cm) long during hot months. If there is growth, the lawn
should be cut in the fall.

kobalttools.com

16

OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS
Mulching tips
Note: Inspect the area where the mower is to be used and remove all stones, sticks, wire, bones, and
other debris that might be thrown by the rotating blade.
• Release the switch to turn the mower OFF when crossing any graveled area (stones can be
thrown by the blade).
• Set mower to the highest cutting height when mowing on uneven ground or in tall weeds.
• For effective mulching, do not cut wet grass because it tends to stick to the underside of the deck,
preventing proper mulching of grass clippings. New or thick grass may require a narrower cut. The
ground speed should be adjusted to the condition of the lawn. If mowing has been delayed and the
grass has been allowed to grow longer than 4 in. (10 cm), mow the lawn twice in order to reduce
the grass height to a maximum of 3-1/4 in. (8.3 cm).
• Walk at a steady pace. Overlap the cutting rows. Do not let the grass get too tall. If the grass gets
too long, start at the highest cutting position and work down to the desired cutting height.
WARNING
If you strike a foreign object, stop the motor and remove the battery. Thoroughly inspect the mower
for any damage. Repair any damage before operating the mower. Excessive vibration of the mower
during operation is an indication of damage. Thoroughly inspect the mower and repair any damage
before operating the mower.
3. Emptying the grass catcher bag
• Stop the mower and allow blades to completely stop.
• Lift the rear discharge cover.
• Lift the grass catcher by its handle to remove from
mower.
• Empty grass clippings.
• Lift the rear discharge cover and reinstall the grass
catcher as described earlier in this manual.
Note: When you start the mower, the full bag indicator
of the grass catcher will lift up. Once the grass catcher
is full, the full bag indicator will fall. So the grass
catcher bag needs to be emptied.

3

Full bag
indicator

Replacing the cutting blade
WARNING
Always protect your hands by wearing heavy gloves and/or wrapping the cutting edges with rags or
other materials when performing any maintenance on the blades. Always remove the battery when
servicing or transporting the mower.

kobalttools.com

17

CARE AND MAINTENANCE
Use only KOBALT replacement blades (Item #0535389,
sold separately).
•

Stop the motor. Allow blade to come to a complete
stop.

•

Remove the battery.

•

Turn the mower on its side.

•

Wedge a block of wood between the blade and mower
deck to prevent the blade from turning.

•

For BLADE I, loosen the blade nut by turning it
clockwise (as viewed from bottom of mower) using a
15 mm wrench or socket (not provided). For BLADE II,
loosen the blade nut by turning it counterclockwise (as
viewed from bottom of mower) using a 15 mm wrench
or socket (not provided).

•

Remove the blade nut, spacer, blade insulator, and
blade.
Make certain the motor assembly is pushed completely
against the motor shaft.

•
•

Place the new blade on the shaft against the motor
assembly. Ensure blade is properly seated with shaft
going through center blade hole and the two blade
posts inserted into their respective holes on the blade.
Make sure it is installed with the curved ends pointing
up toward the mower deck and not down toward the
ground. When seated properly, the blade should be flat
against the motor assembly.

•

Replace the blade insulator and spacer, then thread
the blade nut on the shaft and finger tighten.
Note: Make certain all parts are replaced in the exact
order in which they were removed.

•

For BLADE I, torque the blade nut down
counterclockwise using a torque wrench (not provided)
to ensure the bolt is properly tightened. For BLADE II,
torque the blade nut down clockwise using a torque
wrench (not provided) to ensure the bolt is properly
tightened. The recommended torque for the blade nut
is 350-400 in. lbs.

Cleaning the mower
WARNING
• To reduce the risk of electric shock, do not expose the mower to water.
• The underside of mower deck should be cleaned after each use as grass clippings, leaves, dirt and
other debris will accumulate causing rust and corrosion.
kobalttools.com

18

CARE AND MAINTENANCE
• Remove any buildup of grass and leaves on or around the motor cover (do not use water). Wipe
the mower clean with a dry cloth occasionally.
• If debris builds up on the underside of the unit while in use, stop the motor and disconnect it from
the power supply. Tilt the mower forward, or on its side, and scrape it clean with an appropriate tool.
Storing the mower
The following steps should be taken in order to prepare
the lawn mower for storage.
• Clean the mower as described in the previous section.
• Inspect the blade, and replace it, if required.
• Store the mower in a dry, clean location. Do not store it
next to corrosive materials, such as fertilizer or
rock salt.
• Store the mower indoors, in a cool, dry place, out of
the reach of children. Do not cover the lawn mower
with a solid plastic sheet. Plastic coverings trap
moisture around the mower, which causes rust and
corrosion.
• The handle may be folded away completely for
storage.
• Remove the battery, store it in a cool dry location, if
possible.
Service
Servicing requires extreme care and knowledge and should be performed only by a qualified service
technician. For service, we suggest you return the product to your nearest authorized service center
for repair. When servicing, use only identical replacement parts.
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

WARNING
When servicing the mower, use only replacement parts that are available from the manufacturer.
In order to obtain replacement parts, call the toll-free helpline, at 1-888-356-2258. The use of parts
that do not meet the original equipment specifications may lead to improper performance, and
may compromise safety.
Before cleaning, repairing, or inspecting, verify that the blade and all moving parts have come to a
complete stop. Remove the battery when making any adjustments or when any of the four wheels
must be lifted off the ground.
Follow the instructions for changing accessories.
Keep the handles dry, clean, and free of oil and grease.
In order to reduce the risk of fire, keep the motor free of grass, leaves, and debris build-up.
Check the blade and motor mounting bolts for proper tightness frequently. Visually inspect blade
for damage (e.g., bent, cracked, or worn).
For best and safest performance, maintain the mower with care. Keep the mower blade sharp
and clean. Mower blades are sharp, and can cut. Wrap the blades or wear gloves, and use extra
caution when servicing.
Keep all nuts, bolts, and screws tight in order to be sure that the equipment is in safe working
condition.
Never tamper with safety devices. Check them regularly for proper operation.
After striking a foreign object, stop the motor. Thoroughly inspect the mower for any damage.
Repair any damage before operating the mower.
kobalttools.com

19

CARE AND MAINTENANCE
•

•

The grass catcher components, discharge cover, and trail shield are subject to wear and damage,
which could expose moving parts or allow objects to be thrown. As a safety precaution, check
these components frequently, and immediately replace any parts that show signs of wear, or that
are cracked or broken. Use original equipment manufacturer’s (OEM) parts only, as listed in this
manual.
When it is not in use, store the mower indoors in a dry area, and out of the reach of children.

WARNING
Always remove battery when servicing or transporting the mower.
TROUBLESHOOTING
PROBLEM
The mower does
not start.

POSSIBLE CAUSE
1. The battery is not charged.
2. The switch is defective.
3. Grass jammed at blade.
4. The battery is not inserted all the
way in.
5. Battery may require replacement.

CORRECTIVE ACTION
1. Charge the battery.
2. Replace the switch (Call 1-888356-2258).
3. Remove battery check under
deck for jams.
4. Press the battery in until it clicks.
5. Return the battery to the place of
purchase.

The mower cuts
1. The lawn is rough or uneven.
the grass unevenly. 2. The cutting height is not set
properly.

1. Check the mowing area.
2. Move the wheels to a higher setting.

The mower does
1. Wet grass clippings are sticking to
not mulch properly.
the underside of the deck.
2. The mulching plug is missing.

1. Wait until the grass dries before
mowing.
2. Install the mulching plug.

The mower is hard
to push.

1. The grass is too tall, or the cutting
height is too low.
2. The rear of the mower housing
and the blade are dragging in thick
grass.

1. Raise the cutting height.

The mower is
excessively noisy
and vibrates.

1. The motor shaft is bent.

1. Stop the motor, and inspect for
damage.
2. Repair before restarting. If
vibration persists, call the toll free
helpline (1-888-356-2258)

2. The blade is unbalanced.

2. Empty the grass clippings from
the grass catcher bag.

The mower speeds 1. This is normal. Power save feature 1. None, this is normal.
up and slows down
automatically adjusts the cutting
while in operation.
speed of the blades to match the
application to give the best possible
cut while maximizing run time and
battery life.

kobalttools.com

20

LIMITED FIVE-YEAR WARRANTY
5-YEAR HASSLE-FREE WARRANTY
This Kobalt 40 V Lithium-Ion Dual Blade Mower is warranted to the original purchaser from the
original purchase date for five (5) years subject to the warranty coverage described herein.
This Kobalt 40 V Lithium-Ion Dual Blade Mower is warranted for the original user to be free from
defects in material and workmanship.
If you believe that the Kobalt 40 V Lithium-Ion Dual Blade Mower is defective at any time during the
specified warranty period, simply return the Kobalt 40 V Lithium-Ion Dual Blade Mower along with
proof of purchase to the place of purchase for a free replacement or refund.
This warranty is void if: defects in materials or workmanship or damages result from repairs or
alterations which have been made or attempted by others or the unauthorized use of nonconforming
parts; the damage is due to normal wear, damage is due to abuse (including overloading of the tool
beyond capacity), improper maintenance, neglect or accident; or the damage is due to the use of the
tool after partial failure or use with improper accessories or unauthorized repair or alteration.
This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have other rights that vary from state
to state.
This warranty excludes replacement blades and grass bag.

kobalttools.com

21

REPLACEMENT PARTS LIST
For replacement parts, call our customer service department at 1-888-3KOBALT (1-888-356-2258),
8 a.m. - 8 p.m., EST, Monday - Friday.
C

E

FF

CC
EE

DD
GG

HH

PART
AA
BB
CC
DD
EE
FF
GG
HH
II
JJ

II

DESCRIPTION
Battery
Charger
Woven Grass Bag
Bag Upper Cover
Flap Indicator
Cam Lever Assembly
Cam Lever Knob
Mulch Plug
Front Wheel
Rear Wheel

JJ

PART #
31101825
29413
34125486-2
34130486
34133486-2
31102467-4
341101161
34141486
341021163
341011163

Printed in China

Kobalt® is a registered trademark of LF, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

kobalttools.com

22

