Owner's manual*

Owner's manual

Owner's manual
Supplement (05.2017)
Supplement (07.2017)
Composition Media, Discover Media (Generation 2 GP)

Vehicle data sticker
Thank you for choosing Volkswagen
About this owner's manual
Description of symbols
Owner's manual

Tiguan

Edition: 05.2017
PartNr.: 5NA012720AD
Edition 05.2017

Vehicle data sticker

Abbreviations
Index
Epilog

Fig. 1 1: Vehicle identification number; 2: Vehicle type, engine power, gearbox type; 3: Engine
code, gearbox code, paint number, interior equipment; 4: Optional extras, PR numbers

Pre-delivery inspection carried out
on:

Date of delivery
to customer/initial
a)
registration:

Volkswagen dealership stamp

Volkswagen dealership stamp

a)

Whichever comes first.

Thank you for choosing Volkswagen
By purchasing this Volkswagen, you have become the owner of a vehicle fitted with the most up-todate technology and a multitude of convenience functions for your use and enjoyment.

Before using your vehicle for the first time, please read and observe the information in this
owner's manual. It will quickly help you to become familiar with your vehicle and all of its
functions as well as making you aware of dangers to yourself and others and of how these
dangers can be avoided.
If you have any further questions about your vehicle, or if you think that the vehicle wallet has not
covered everything, please get in touch with your Volkswagen dealership. They will always be
happy to deal with your questions, suggestions or problems.
We hope you enjoy driving your new vehicle. Happy motoring.
Volkswagen AG

About this owner's manual
• This owner's manual is valid for all models and versions of the Tiguan.
• An alphabetical index is included at the end of this manual.
• A list of abbreviations at the end of the manual explains the abbreviations used.
• Directions and positions such as left, right, front and rear are normally relative to the vehicle's
direction of travel, unless otherwise indicated.
• Illustrations help with orientation and should be regarded as a general guide.
• This owner's manual was written for left-hand drive vehicles. In right-hand drive vehicles the
controls may sometimes be different to those displayed in illustrations or described in the text

⇒ Overview of driver side .
• Values given in miles instead of kilometres or mph instead of km/h refer to the country-specific
instrument clusters or Infotainment systems.
• Short definitions appear in a different colour before some sections of this manual. They provide
a summary of the function and use of a system or feature. More detailed information about the
features, conditions and limitations of systems and equipment can be found in the relevant
sections.
• Any technical changes that may be made to the vehicle after publication of this booklet are
contained in a supplement that is included with the vehicle wallet.
All equipment and models are described without indicating whether the equipment is optional or
specific to the model type. This means that your vehicle may not have some of the equipment
described, or it may only be available in certain markets. The scope of equipment fitted in your
vehicle can be found in the sales documentation and you can contact your Volkswagen dealership
for further information.
All data in this owner's manual correspond to the information available at the time of going to print.
Because the vehicle is constantly being developed and further improved, there may be differences
between your vehicle and the data in this owner's manual. No discrepancy in data, illustrations or
descriptions shall form the basis for any legal claim.
Please ensure that the complete vehicle wallet is always in the vehicle if you lend or sell the vehicle
to someone else.

Standard booklets in the vehicle wallet:
• Owner's manual

Additional booklets in the vehicle wallet (optional):
• Supplements
• Infotainment system
• Other supplements

About this owner's manual
Refers to a section within a chapter that contains important information and safety
notes

that should always be observed.

Indicates that the section is continued on the next page.
Indicates the end of a section.
Indicates situations in which the vehicle must be stopped as quickly as possible.
®

⇒

The symbol indicates a registered trademark. However, the absence of this symbol
does not constitute a waiver of the rights concerning any term.
Symbols like these refer you to warnings within the same section or on a given
page. They draw your attention to possible risks of accident or injury and explain
how they can be avoided.

⇒

Cross reference to potential risks of damage to property in the same section or on
the page specified.

DANGER
Texts with this symbol indicate dangerous situations which will lead to fatal or severe
injuries if you do not observe the warning.

WARNING
Texts with this symbol indicate dangerous situations which could lead to fatal or severe
injuries if you do not observe the warning.

CAUTION
Texts with this symbol indicate dangerous situations which could lead to slight or medium
injuries if you do not observe the warning.

NOTICE
Texts with this symbol indicate situations which could cause vehicle damage if you do not
observe the warning.

Texts with this symbol contain additional information on the protection of the environment.

Texts with this symbol contain additional information.

Owner's manual
Vehicle overviews
Front view

Fig. 2 Front view of the vehicle.

Key to ⇒ Fig. 2 :
Windscreen:
- Vehicle identification number ⇒ Technical data
- Windscreen heating ⇒ Windscreen heating
- Windscreen wipers ⇒ Wipers ⇒ Wiper blades
- Camera window for assist systems ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior
- Rain/light sensor in the area of the interior mirror ⇒ Rain/light sensor ⇒ Caring for and
cleaning the vehicle exterior
- Sensor for light functions ⇒ Rain/light sensor ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle
exterior
Bonnet opening lever ⇒ In the engine compartment
Behind the Volkswagen badge: radar sensor for assist systems ⇒ Caring for and cleaning
the vehicle exterior
Headlights ⇒ Lights ⇒ Changing bulbs

Headlight washer system ⇒ Wiper functions
Behind a cover: mounting for towing eye ⇒ Tow-starting or towing
Sensors for assist systems ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior
Lights in the bumper ⇒ Lights ⇒ Changing bulbs

Side view

Fig. 3 Side view of the vehicle.

Key to ⇒ Fig. 3 :
Roof aerial ⇒ Radio reception and aerials
Tank flap ⇒ Fuel and emission control
Roof railing ⇒ Roof carrier
Door release lever ⇒ Doors
Exterior mirrors ⇒ Exterior mirrors
- With display of lane change system (Side Assist) ⇒ Lane change system (Side Assist)
incl. Rear Traffic Alert
- With camera for Area View ⇒ Area View
Lifting points ⇒ Changing a wheel

Rear view

Fig. 4 Rear view of the vehicle.

Key to ⇒ Fig. 4 :
High-mounted brake light

Rear window:
- Rear window heating ⇒ Heating and air conditioning system
- Rear wiper ⇒ Wipers ⇒ Wiper blades
- Window aerial ⇒ Radio reception and aerials
Tail light clusters ⇒ Lights ⇒ Changing bulbs
Area for:
- Number plate lights ⇒ Changing bulbs
- Rear view camera system ⇒ Rear view camera system (Rear View)
- Boot lid release button ⇒ Opening and closing the boot lid
Tail light clusters ⇒ Lights ⇒ Changing bulbs
Behind the bumper: radar sensor for assist systems ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle
exterior
Sensors for assist systems ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior
Towing bracket ⇒ Trailer towing
Behind a cover: mounting for towing eye ⇒ Tow-starting or towing

Luggage compartment

Fig. 5 Overview of the luggage compartment.

Fig. 6 Side areas of the luggage compartment.

Key for ⇒ Fig. 5 and ⇒ Fig. 6 :
Luggage compartment cover ⇒ Luggage compartment cover
Release lever for the load-through hatch ⇒ Load-through hatch
Retaining rings for top tether (child seat) ⇒ Securing child seats with top tether upper
strap
Spare wheel or fully-functional spare wheel (depends on equipment) ⇒ Wheels and tyres
Handle recess for luggage compartment floor ⇒ Luggage compartment floor
Vehicle tool kit ⇒ Vehicle toolkit
Lower holder for the net partition ⇒ Net partition

Upper holder for the net partition ⇒ Net partition
Rigid fastening rings ⇒ Fastening rings
Removable light ⇒ Removeable lights
Button for unlocking the ball head ⇒ Trailer towing
Bracket for the luggage compartment floor ⇒ Luggage compartment floor
Backrest remote release mechanism ⇒ Folding the backrests on the rear bench seat
forwards and backwards
230-volt socket ⇒ Electrical sockets
Foldable fastening rings ⇒ Fastening rings
Stowage area behind trim
12-volt socket ⇒ Electrical sockets
Bag hook ⇒ Bag hook
Luggage compartment light

Driver door

Fig. 7 Overview of the controls in the driver door (left-hand drive vehicles). The controls are
mirrored for right-hand drive vehicles.

Key to ⇒ Fig. 7 :
Central locking indicator lamp ⇒ Central locking system
Door release lever ⇒ Doors
Central locking buttons for locking and unlocking the vehicle ⇒ Central locking system
Switch for adjusting the exterior mirrors ⇒ Exterior mirrors
Boot lid release button ⇒ Opening and closing the boot lid
Bottle holder ⇒ Drink holder
Stowage compartment for high-visibility waistcoat ⇒ In an emergency
Reflector
Buttons for operating the electric windows ⇒ Windows

Overview of driver side

Fig. 8 Overview of the driver side (left-hand drive vehicles).

Fig. 9 Overview of the driver side (right-hand drive vehicles).

Key for ⇒ Fig. 8 and ⇒ Fig. 9 :
Light switch ⇒ Vehicle lighting
Headlight range control ⇒ Headlight range control
Control for the Head-up-Display ⇒ Head-up Display
Turn signal and main beam lever ⇒ Lights
- With switches and buttons for the driver assist systems ⇒ Button for driver assist
systems ⇒ Driver assist systems
Vents ⇒ Heating and air conditioning system
Instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster
- With warning and indicator lamps ⇒ Warning and indicator lamp overview
Stowage compartment ⇒ Stowage areas
Lever for wipers and washers ⇒ Wipers
- With buttons for menu operation

⇒ Instrument cluster

,

Controls on the multifunction steering wheel:
- Audio, navigation
- Operating driver assist systems

,

,

,

,

⇒ Driver

assist systems
- Volume adjustment
- Menu operation

,
,

,

⇒ Operating using the multifunction steering

wheel
- Activating voice control
- Opening the telephone menu or accepting telephone calls
Horn (works only when the ignition is switched on)
Ignition lock ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine
Pedals ⇒ Pedals
Location of the driver front airbag ⇒ Airbag system
Lever for adjusting the steering column ⇒ Correct sitting position
Location of the knee airbag ⇒ Airbag system

Stowage compartment ⇒ Stowage areas
Release lever for the bonnet ⇒ In the engine compartment

Centre console

Fig. 10 Overview of the upper section of the centre console.

Fig. 11 Overview of the lower section of the centre console (left-hand drive vehicles).

Key to ⇒ Fig. 10 :
Indicator lamp for the front passenger front airbag switch-off function

⇒ Airbag

system
Vents ⇒ Heating and air conditioning system

⇒ In an emergency

Hazard warning lights button

Infotainment system ⇒BookletInfotainment system, ⇒ Operation and display in the
Infotainment system

⇒ Seat heating

Buttons for seat heating

Controls for the air conditioning system, heating and fresh air system ⇒ Heating,
ventilation and cooling
- With auxiliary heater

⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation

Key to ⇒ Fig. 11 :
Lever for:
®

- Automatic gearbox ⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox
- Manual gearbox ⇒ Manual gearbox: selecting a gear
Area for:
- MEDIA-IN socket, USB port

, AUX IN socket

⇒BookletInfotainment

system,
- Cigarette lighter ⇒ Ashtray and cigarette lighter
- 12-volt socket ⇒ Electrical sockets
Buttons for:
- Assist systems for parking and manoeuvring
- Driving profile selection

⇒ Parking and manoeuvring

⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active

Control
Stowage compartment in the centre console ⇒ Stowage areas

Stowage compartment in the centre armrest ⇒ Stowage areas
Control for 4MOTION Active Control ⇒ Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action
Control)
Button for Auto Hold function ⇒ Auto Hold function
Electronic parking brake ⇒ Electronic parking brake
Starter button (keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access) ⇒ Starting and
stopping the engine

Front passenger side

Fig. 12 Overview of the front passenger side (left-hand drive vehicles). The controls are mirrored in
right-hand drive vehicles.

Fig. 13 Dash panel near open front passenger door (left-hand drive vehicles). The controls are
mirrored in right-hand drive vehicles.

Key for ⇒ Fig. 12 and ⇒ Fig. 13 :
Control lever for the stowage compartment ⇒ Stowage areas
Location of front passenger front airbag in the dash panel ⇒ Airbag system
Vents ⇒ Heating and air conditioning system
Key switch for switching off the front passenger front airbag ⇒ Airbag system

Controls in the roof
Symbol

Meaning
Buttons for interior and reading lights ⇒ Lights .
Button for glass roof ⇒ Glass roof .
Emergency call service, information call and breakdown
call ⇒ In an emergency .
Buttons for the sun blind ⇒ Protection from the sun

Driver information

Warning and indicator lamp overview
The warning and indicator lamps indicate various warnings, faults or certain functions. Some
warning and indicator lamps light up when the ignition is switched on and should go out once the
engine is running or the vehicle is in motion.

Depending on the vehicle equipment level, symbols may be displayed in the instrument cluster
instead of warning lamps.
Some warning and indicator lamps are not available in all markets.
For details on indicator lamps which light up in the light switch, see Chapter Lights ⇒ Lights .

Symbol

Meaning
Central warning lamp. Observe the additional information on the
instrument cluster display.
Do not drive on!
The electronic parking brake is switched on ⇒ Electronic parking
brake .
Do not drive on!
Brake fluid level too low or fault in the brake system ⇒ Brake fluid .
Do not drive on!
Coolant level too low ⇒ Engine coolant , engine coolant temperature
too high or fault in the cooling system ⇒ Coolant temperature display .
Do not drive on!
Engine oil pressure too low ⇒ Engine oil .
Flashing:

Do not drive on! Fault in the electronic steering column

lock ⇒ Steering .
Lit up: electromechanical steering has failed ⇒ Steering .
Driver or front passenger seat belt not fastened ⇒ Seat belts .
OR: there are objects on the front passenger seat ⇒ Seat belts .
Brake or take evasive action.
Collision warning from area monitoring system (Front Assist) ⇒ Area
monitoring system (Front Assist) .
OR: collision warning from Pedestrian Monitoring ⇒ Pedestrian
Monitoring .
®

Depress the brake pedal. ⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox , ⇒ Adaptive
Cruise Control (ACC) .
Fault in the alternator ⇒ 12-volt vehicle battery .
Front brake pads worn. Go to a qualified workshop immediately. All
brake pads should be checked and renewed as necessary

⇒ Information on the brakes .
Central warning lamp. Observe the additional information on the
instrument cluster display.
Electronic Stability Control (ESC) ⇒ Brake support systems .
Traction control system (TCS) ⇒ Brake support systems .
OR: off-road driving profile active ⇒ Driving profile selection and
4MOTION Active Control .
Anti-lock brake system faulty or not functioning ⇒ Brake support
systems .
Electronic parking brake fault ⇒ Electronic parking brake .
Rear fog light switched on ⇒ Lights .
Partial or complete failure of the vehicle lighting, excluding cornering
light ⇒ Changing bulbs .
Lit up: there is a fault that affects the exhaust emissions

⇒ Troubleshooting .
Flashing: misfiring, which damages the catalytic converter

⇒ Troubleshooting .
Engine management system fault (Electronic Power Control)

⇒ Troubleshooting .
Engine speed limited (protection against overheating)

⇒ Troubleshooting .
Lit up: electromechanical steering reduced
OR: the 12-volt battery has been disconnected and reconnected

⇒ Steering .
Flashing: steering column is wound-up or is not unlocked/locked

⇒ Steering .
Lit up: tyre pressure too low ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .
Flashing: fault in tyre monitoring system ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .
Fault in the rain/light sensor ⇒ Wipers .
Fault in wipers ⇒ Wipers .
Washer fluid level too low ⇒ Wipers .
Fuel tank almost empty ⇒ Fuel gauge .
Lit up: engine oil level too low ⇒ Engine oil .
Flashing: engine oil system fault ⇒ Engine oil .

Symbol

Meaning
Fault in airbag and belt tensioner system ⇒ Airbag system .
Front passenger front airbag switched off (PASSENGER AIR BAG
) ⇒ Airbag system .
Front passenger front airbag switched on (PASSENGER AIR BAG
) ⇒ Airbag system .
The tank cap is not closed properly.
Lane keeping system (Lane Assist) switched on but not active ⇒ Lane
keeping system (Lane Assist) .
ACC currently not available ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .
®

®

Fault in DSG dual clutch gearbox: gearbox fault ⇒ DSG dual clutch
gearbox .
Manual gearbox: high clutch temperature or clutch fault ⇒ Manual
gearbox: selecting a gear .
Area monitoring system (Front Assist) is deactivated ⇒ Area

m/k/n998MK

monitoring system (Front Assist) .
OR: Pedestrian Monitoring deactivated ⇒ Pedestrian Monitoring .
Fault in the adaptive chassis control (DCC) ⇒ Driving profile selection
and 4MOTION Active Control .
Turn signal, left or right ⇒ Lights .
Hazard warning lights switched on ⇒ In an emergency .
Depress the brake pedal. ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine ,
®

⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox , ⇒ Electronic parking brake .
The vehicle is being held by the Auto Hold function ⇒ Electronic
parking brake .
Cruise control system (CCS) ⇒ Cruise control system (CCS) OR
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .
Lane keeping system (Lane Assist) is switched on and active ⇒ Lane
keeping system (Lane Assist) .
The main beam is switched on or the headlight flasher is being
operated ⇒ Lights .
Manual gearbox: clutch is not transmitting the full engine torque

⇒ Manual gearbox: selecting a gear .
ACC is active. No vehicle has been detected ahead ⇒ Adaptive
Cruise Control (ACC) .
When displayed in white: ACC is active. Vehicle detected ahead

⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .
When displayed in grey: ACC not active. System is switched on, but
not regulating ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .
Main beam control (Light Assist) or dynamic main beam control
(Dynamic Light Assist) is active ⇒ Lights .
Service alert / service due ⇒ Service interval display .
Mobile telephone battery charge level. Activated only with factoryfitted mobile phone interface ⇒BookletInfotainment system,.
The outside temperature is below +4°C (+39°F) ⇒ Instrument cluster .
The start/stop system is available, automatic engine stop is active

⇒ Start/stop system .
The start/stop system is not available.
OR: the start/stop system has switched on the engine automatically

⇒ Start/stop system .
Economical mode ⇒ Displays .
Note about information in the vehicle wallet.

Additional displays: trailer towing
Symbol

Meaning
The ball head on the towing bracket is not locked ⇒ Trailer towing .
Trailer turn signal ⇒ Lights .

Additional displays: off-road mode
Symbol

Meaning
When displayed in white: Hill Descent Control is active ⇒ Hill Descent
Control .
When displayed in grey: Hill Descent Control not active. System
switched on, but not regulating ⇒ Hill Descent Control .

m/k/s562MK

When displayed in white: Off-Road driving profile active ⇒ Driving
profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .

Symbol

Meaning
When displayed in grey: Off-road driving profile not active. System
switched on, but not regulating ⇒ Driving profile selection and
4MOTION Active Control .

Additional displays: diesel vehicles
Symbol

Meaning
®

The engine cannot be restarted! AdBlue fill level is too low
®

⇒ Emission control with AdBlue .
The engine cannot be restarted! Fault in the selective catalytic
®

reduction system ⇒ Emission control with AdBlue .
Water in fuel in vehicles with a diesel engine ⇒ Fuel gauge .
Lit up: diesel engine is preheating before starting ⇒ Starting and
stopping the engine .
Flashing: fault in engine management system (diesel engine)

⇒ Troubleshooting .
Diesel particulate filter has become saturated with soot

⇒ Troubleshooting .
®

®

AdBlue level is low ⇒ Emission control with AdBlue .
Selective catalytic reduction system faulty or not refilled using norm®

®

standard AdBlue ⇒ Emission control with AdBlue .

WARNING
Failure to observe illuminated warning lamps and text messages can lead to your vehicle
breaking down in traffic, and can cause accidents and serious injury.
• Never ignore any illuminated warning lamps or text messages.
• Stop the vehicle as soon as possible and when safe to do so.

Instrument cluster
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Analogue instrument cluster
⇒ Digital instrument cluster (Active Info Display)
⇒ Head-up Display
⇒ Displays
⇒ Instrument cluster menus
⇒ Driving data display (multifunction display)
⇒ Warning and information messages
⇒ Driver Alert System (recommendation for rest breaks)
⇒ Dynamic Road Sign Display (Sign Assist)
⇒ Time
⇒ Fuel gauge
⇒ Coolant temperature display
⇒ Service interval display
The vehicle is equipped either with an analogue or a digital instrument cluster (Active Info Display).
When you start the engine after the 12-volt battery has been totally discharged or changed, you
may find that system settings (time, date, personal convenience settings and programming) have
been changed or deleted. Check and correct the settings as necessary once the 12-volt vehicle
battery has been sufficiently charged.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted.
• Never press the buttons on the instrument cluster while the vehicle is in motion.
• Any settings for the instrument cluster display and displays in the Infotainment system
should be made only when the vehicle is stationary in order to reduce the risk of
accidents and serious injuries.

Analogue instrument cluster

Fig. 14 Dash panel: analogue instrument cluster.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Descriptions of the instruments ⇒ Fig. 14 :
Rev counter (running engine speed in revolutions x 1,000 per minute).The start of the red
zone on the dial indicates the maximum engine speed that may be used in each gear when the
engine is warm and after it has been run in properly. You should change up a gear or move the
selector lever to D/S (or lift your foot off the accelerator) before the needle reaches the red zone

⇒

.
Coolant temperature display⇒ Coolant temperature display .
Displays⇒ Displays .
Reset, set and display button⇒ Displays .
Speedometer
Fuel gauge⇒ Fuel gauge .

NOTICE
• When the engine is cold, avoid high engine speeds, driving at full throttle and
overloading the engine.
• The needle on the rev counter should only briefly point into the red area, as engine
damage may otherwise be incurred.

Changing up a gear early will help to save fuel and reduce engine noise.

Digital instrument cluster (Active Info Display)
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The "Active Info Display" is a digital
instrument cluster with high-resolution
TFT colour display. To complement the
standard dials such as the rev counter
and speedometer, users can choose
from various "information profiles" to
view additional data.

Fig. 15 Dash panel: Active Info Display.

Descriptions of the instruments ⇒ Fig. 15 :
Rev counter (running engine speed in revolutions x 1,000 per minute).The start of the red
zone on the dial indicates the maximum engine speed that may be used in each gear when the
engine is warm and after it has been run in properly. You should change up a gear or move the
selector lever to D/S (or lift your foot off the accelerator) before the needle reaches the red zone

⇒

.
Data as selected via an information profile. Precisely what data is shown depends on

which information profile has been selected. The example above shows the Classic profile with
no additional information shown.
Displays⇒ Displays .
Reset, set and display button⇒ Displays .
Speedometer
Digital speed display.

Fuel gauge⇒ Fuel gauge .
Coolant temperature display

⇒ Coolant temperature display .

Current gear / selector lever position⇒ Manual gearbox: selecting a gear or ⇒ DSG

®

dual clutch gearbox .

Information profiles
To select a specific information profile, go to the Views menu option in the display of the instrument
cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster menus . The Active Info Display shows additional information in the
centre of the dials ⇒ Fig. 15 ② depending on the information profile you have selected. The
following information profiles are available:
• Classic. No additional information shown.
• Consumption and range. Current consumption is shown graphically and average consumption
is shown digitally in the rev counter. The remaining range is shown digitally in the speedometer.
• Efficiency. Average consumption is shown digitally and current consumption is shown
graphically in the rev counter. In the speedometer, the symbol

is shown if the current

driving style is fuel-efficient, and a graphic display helps the driver save fuel.
• Navigation. If route guidance is active: the remaining distance to the set destination and an
estimated time of arrival are shown in the rev counter, and arrows to aid navigation are shown
in the speedometer. If route guidance is inactive: the current altitude is shown in the rev
counter, and a compass is shown in the speedometer.
• Driver assistance. Graphic representation of various driver assist systems, or digital display of
the driving time in the rev counter. The speedometer meanwhile shows arrow navigation or a
compass.
• Off-road. Digital display of the steering angle and compass display in the speedometer. With
active Hill Descent Control: graphic display of the Hill Descent Control with speed display in the
speedometer.

Navigation map in the Active Info Display
With some vehicle equipment levels, the Active Info Display is able to display a detailed map. To
display this map, select the Navigation menu item in the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster
menus .
The map can be shown in either of two sizes. If the larger version is selected, the Active Info
Display dials will be smaller. To select the preferred map size:
• Press the

button on the multifunction steering wheel ⇒ Instrument cluster menus to

switch between map sizes as required.
• OR: press the

or

arrow button on the multifunction steering wheel to select the

required map size. A frame appears around the selected option.
• Confirm the selection by pressing the

button on the multifunction steering wheel.

Depending on the equipment level, navigation is shown on two displays or only one. The navigation
map be displayed on the Active Info Display and Infotainment system or only on the Infotainment
system display. In the latter case, only navigation arrows are shown on the Active Info Display.

NOTICE
• When the engine is cold, avoid high engine speeds, driving at full throttle and
overloading the engine.
• The needle on the rev counter should only briefly point into the red area, as engine
damage may otherwise be incurred.

Changing up a gear early will help to save fuel and reduce engine noise.

Head-up Display
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The Head-up Display projects selected
information or warning messages from
the assistance systems or the
Infotainment system into the driver's
field of vision.

Fig. 16 Next to the steering wheel: Head-up Display control (arrow).

Fig. 17 On the dash panel above the steering wheel: examples of information shown in the Headup Display.

Switching the Head-up Display on or off
Press the control ⇒ Fig. 16 to switch the Head-up Display on or off.

Adjusting the height
Proceed as follows to adjust the height of the Head-up Display and individually adapt the angle:
• Assume an optimum sitting position ⇒ Sitting position .
• Use the control ⇒ Fig. 16 to adjust the height of the Head-up Display as required.

Setup in the Infotainment system
You can configure additional setup parameters for the Head-up Display in the Infotainment system.
To open the Head-up Display settings menu, press the
touch the

Vehicle ,

and

button or function button and

Head-up Display function buttons.

The following settings are available:
• Adjust the Head-up Display brightness. If the surroundings become darker, the display
brightness is automatically dimmed. The basic brightness is adjusted together with the
instrument and switch lighting ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .
• Select the desired colour scheme. You can choose between a standard colour scheme and an
alternative colour scheme.
• Select the content of the Head-up Display, e.g. Adaptive Cruise Control or Infotainment system.
Some content cannot be deactivated, e.g. warning messages.

NOTICE
The Head-up Display may detach from the guide rail as a result of applying excessive
pressure, e.g. during cleaning.
• Do not apply excessive pressure when cleaning the Head-up Display.

NOTICE
To avoid scratching the cover panel, do not place objects in the slot of the Headup Display.

Sun glasses with polarisation filters and unfavourable lighting conditions may impair the
effectiveness of the display.
The ideal position to read the Head-up Display depends on your seat position and the height
setting of the Head-up Display.
Some settings can be saved in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account is changed ⇒ Personalisation .

Displays
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Possible instrument cluster displays
• Open doors, bonnet and boot lid.
• Warning and information messages
• Mileage displays

• Time ⇒ Time .
• Radio and navigation information ⇒BookletInfotainment system,.
• Telephone information ⇒BookletInfotainment system,.
• Outside temperature
• Compass display
• Selector lever positions
• Gear-change indicator ⇒ Gear-change indicator .
• Driving data display (multifunction display) and menus for various settings ⇒ Instrument cluster
menus .
• Service interval display ⇒ Service interval display .
• Speed warning function ⇒ Instrument cluster menus .
• Speed warning for winter tyres.
• Start/stop system status display ⇒ Start/stop system .
®

• Status display for Active Cylinder Management (ACT ) ⇒ Driving economically .
• Economical mode

.

• Engine code (EC)
• Personalisation: welcome and user selection.
• Road signs detected by the Dynamic Road Sign Display system ⇒ Dynamic Road Sign Display
(Sign Assist) .

Open doors, bonnet and boot lid
The instrument cluster display indicates if any doors, the bonnet or boot lid are open once the
vehicle has been unlocked, and while the vehicle is in motion. In some cases, a signal tone is also
given. Different instrument cluster designs will have different displays.

®

Selector lever positions (DSG dual clutch gearbox)
The gear selected is displayed on the side of the selector lever and on the display in the instrument
cluster. The instrument cluster display may show which gear has been selected if the selector lever
®

is in D/S position or in Tiptronic mode ⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox .

Outside temperature display
If the outside temperature falls below approximately +4°C (+39°F), the temperature display also
shows a snowflake symbol
above +6°C (+43°F) ⇒

. This symbol remains lit up until the outside temperature rises

.

Heat radiated from the engine may cause the temperature display to show a slightly higher value
than the actual outside temperature if the vehicle is stationary, the auxiliary heater ⇒ Auxiliary
heater and ventilation is switched on or the vehicle is travelling at a very low vehicle speed.
The measuring range lies between -45°C (-49°F) and +76°C (+169°F).

Gear-change indicator
When driving in Tiptronic mode, the instrument cluster display may recommend a gear to save fuel

⇒ Gear-change indicator .

Mileage displays
The odometer registers the total distance travelled by the car.
The trip recorder (trip) shows the distance travelled since the trip recorder was last reset.
• To reset the trip recorder to 0, briefly press the

button in the instrument cluster

⇒ Analogue instrument cluster or ⇒ Digital instrument cluster (Active Info Display) .

Speed warning for winter tyres
A display in the instrument cluster indicates when the set maximum speed has been exceeded

⇒ Instrument cluster menus .
You can adjust the settings for the speed warning in the Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle settings
menu .

Compass display
If the ignition is switched on, depending on the equipment level, the instrument cluster display
shows the current direction of travel in the form of an abbreviation, e.g. NW for north west.
The graphic compass display is also shown when the Infotainment system is switched on and route
guidance is not active.

Economical mode
While driving, the instrument cluster will show whether the vehicle is in a fuel-efficient mode

,

®

e.g. due to active cylinder management (ACT ) ⇒ Driving economically or coasting of the
®

automatic gearbox ⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox .

Engine code
Press and hold the

button in the instrument cluster (for approximately 15 seconds) to show

the vehicle's engine code (EC) in the display. The ignition must be switched on but the engine must
not be running ⇒ Analogue instrument cluster or ⇒ Digital instrument cluster (Active Info Display) .

Trailer drawbar load display
If the vehicle drives with a trailer attached (depends on equipment and not available in all markets),
the drawbar load and the trailer weight can be shown in the instrument cluster display.

WARNING
Streets and bridges can be iced over at outside temperatures above freezing point.
• The snowflake symbol indicates that there is a risk of black ice.
• There may be black ice on the roads even when outside temperatures are above +4 °C
(+39 °F), even when no snowflake symbol is displayed.
• You should never rely solely on the outside temperature display!

Different instrument clusters are available, which means that the versions and displays may
vary. In displays without warning or information texts, faults are indicated exclusively by indicator
lamps.
Some displays in the instrument cluster may be overridden by sudden alerts, e.g. incoming
telephone calls.
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, some settings and displays may also appear in
the Infotainment system.
If several warning reports are detected, the symbols will appear for several seconds, one
after another. The symbols will continue to appear until the faults are rectified.
If warning messages about malfunctions are displayed when the ignition is switched on, it
may not be possible to adjust some settings as described, or the information display may appear
differently. If this is the case, take the vehicle to a qualified workshop to have the malfunction
rectified.

Instrument cluster menus
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The range of content and layout of the menus and displays depend on the vehicle electronics and
the level of vehicle equipment.
Qualified workshops can programme and modify other functions depending on the vehicle
equipment level. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.
Some menu options can only be opened when the vehicle is stationary.
◾ Driving data⇒ Driving data display (multifunction display)
◾ Assist systems
◾ Lane Assist on/off ⇒ Lane keeping system (Lane Assist)
◾ Front Assist on/off ⇒ Area monitoring system (Front Assist)
◾ Pedestrian Monitoring on/off ⇒ Pedestrian Monitoring
◾ Lane change system on/off ⇒ Lane change system (Side Assist) incl. Rear Traffic Alert
◾ Rear Traffic Alert on/off ⇒ Lane change system (Side Assist) incl. Rear Traffic Alert
◾ ACC (display only) ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC)
1)

◾ Views ⇒ Instrument cluster
◾ Navigation ⇒BookletInfotainment system,
◾ Audio ⇒BookletInfotainment system,
◾ Telephone ⇒BookletInfotainment system,
◾ Vehicle status⇒ Warning and information messages
◾ Lap timer⇒ Lap timer
◾ Personalisation (user selection)⇒ Personalisation

1)

Only in vehicles with an Active Info Display.

Driving data display (multifunction display)
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The driving data display (multifunction display) shows different driving and consumption values and
has three memories.

Switching between displays
• Vehicles without a multifunction steering wheel: press the rocker switch

on the wiper

lever ⇒ Operating using the wiper lever .
• Vehicles with a multifunction steering wheel: press the

button ⇒ Operating

or

using the multifunction steering wheel .

Switching between recorders
Press the

button on the wiper lever, or press the

button on the

multifunction steering wheel.

Since start recorder
The memory will be deleted if the journey is interrupted for more than two hours.

Since refuelling recorder
Display and storage of the collected driving and consumption values. The memory is deleted when
the vehicle is refuelled.

Long-term recorder
The recorder collects the driving data for up to 19 hours and 59 minutes or 99 hours and 59
minutes driving time or 1,999.9 km or 9,999.9 km distance covered. The memory is deleted if one of
1)

these maximum values is exceeded.

Clearing a driving data recorder
• Select the memory that you wish to delete.
• Press and hold the

button on the wiper lever or the

button on the

multifunction steering wheel for approximately two seconds.

Selecting displays
You can select which driving data you want to display in the Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle settings
menu .

Average consumption display
The average fuel consumption is displayed after around 300 metres.

Range display
Approximate distance in km that can still be covered with the same driving style.

SCR range or Range

display
®

Approximate distance (in km) that can be travelled with the remaining quantity of AdBlue under
current driving conditions. This display appears only as from a remaining range of 2,400 km and
cannot be cancelled.

2)

Average speed display
The average speed is displayed after around 100 metres.

Setting the speed warning
• Select the display Warning at --- km/h or Warning at --- mph.
• Press the

button on the wiper lever or the

button on the multifunction

steering wheel to save the current speed and activate the warning system.
• Within around five seconds, set the speed with the
the

or
or

is activated.

rocker switch on the wiper lever or

buttons on the multifunction steering wheel. Then press the button
or wait a few seconds. The speed is now saved and the warning

• To deactivate, press the

or

button again. The stored speed will be

deleted.
The warning can be set for speeds from 30 km/h (18 mph) to 250 km/h (155 mph).

Some settings can be saved in the user accounts of the personalisation function and can
therefore change automatically when the user account is changed ⇒ Personalisation .
1)

2)

Changes depending on the instrument cluster version.
Not available in all countries.

Warning and information messages
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The system runs a check on certain components and functions in the vehicle when the ignition is
switched on or while the vehicle is in motion. Malfunctions are indicated by red and yellow warning
symbols with information messages on the instrument cluster display ⇒ Warning and indicator lamp
overview . An acoustic warning is also given in certain cases. The appearance of the information
messages and symbols can vary depending on the version of the instrument cluster.
In addition, a list of current malfunctions can be opened manually. To do so, open the Vehicle
status or Vehicle menu ⇒ Instrument cluster menus .
Priority 1 warning (red)The symbol flashes or lights up (sometimes together with a signal tone).
Do not drive on! Danger. Check the fault and correct the cause. Seek expert assistance if
necessary.Priority 2 warning (yellow)The symbol flashes or lights up (sometimes together with a
signal tone). Malfunctions and insufficient service fluids can damage the vehicle and cause it to
break down. Check the fault as soon as possible. Seek expert assistance if necessary.Information
messageInformation about various procedures within the vehicle.
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, some settings and displays may also appear in
the Infotainment system.
If several warning reports are detected, the symbols will appear for several seconds, one
after another. The symbols will continue to appear until the faults are rectified.
If warning messages about malfunctions are displayed when the ignition is switched on, it
may not be possible to adjust some settings as described, or the information display may appear
differently. If this is the case, take the vehicle to a qualified workshop to have the malfunction
rectified.

Driver Alert System (recommendation for rest breaks)
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The Driver Alert System informs the
driver if their driving shows signs of
tiredness.

Fig. 18 On the instrument cluster display: Driver Alert System.

Function and operation
The Driver Alert System determines the driving behaviour at the beginning of a journey and uses it
to evaluate the tiredness of the driver. This is compared to the behaviour of the driver while actually
driving. If the system detects that the driver may be tired, an acoustic warning signal will sound and
a message will appear in the instrument cluster display ⇒ Fig. 18 . The message in the instrument
cluster display is displayed for about five seconds and may be repeated once. The last displayed
message is saved by the system.
The message on the instrument cluster display can be switched off by pressing the
button on the wiper lever or the

button on the multifunction steering

wheel ⇒ Instrument cluster operation . The message can be displayed again on the instrument
cluster display using the multifunction display ⇒ Warning and information messages .

Functional limitations
The driving behaviour can be evaluated only when the speed is above 60 km/h (37 mph) up to
approximately 200 km/h (125 mph).

Switching on and off
The Driver Alert System can be activated or deactivated using the
button and the

Vehicle ,

and

button or function

Driver assistance function buttons in the

Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .

Function limitations
The Driver Alert System has system-related limitations. The following conditions can limit the
function of the Driver Alert System, or prevent it from working altogether:
• Speeds less than 60 km/h (37 mph).
• Speeds of more than 200 km/h (125 mph).
• Roads with bends.
• Poor roads.
• Adverse weather conditions.
• Sporty driving style.
• Towing a heavy/long trailer.
• The driver is distracted.
The Driver Alert System is reset in the following situations:
• The ignition is switched off.
• The driver seat belt is unfastened and the driver door is open.
• The vehicle has been stationary for longer than 15 minutes.
The Driver Alert System is automatically reset in case of long slow drives (speed less than 60 km/h
(37 mph)). If the speed is increased, the system evaluates the driving behaviour again.

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in the Driver Alert System cannot overcome the laws of
physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Do not let the extra
convenience afforded by the Driver Alert System tempt you into taking any risks when
driving – this can cause accidents. During a long trip, plan regular and sufficient breaks.
• The driver is responsible at all times for their fitness to drive.
• Never drive a vehicle when you are tired.
• The system cannot always detect the driver's level of alertness. Observe the
information in the section Function limitations ⇒ Function limitations .
• In certain situations, the system may wrongly interpret intentional driving manoeuvres
as a lack of alertness from the driver.
• No urgent warning will be given in the event of the phenomenon known as microsleep.
• Follow the information on the instrument cluster display and respond according to the
commands.

The Driver Alert System has been developed for use only while driving on highways and
good roads.
If there is a system fault, proceed to a qualified workshop immediately to have the system
checked.

Dynamic Road Sign Display (Sign Assist)

Fig. 19 On the instrument cluster display: examples of recognised speed limits or overtaking
restrictions with accompanying additional signs.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Dynamic Road Sign Display uses a camera in the base of the interior mirror to monitor standard
road signs in front of the vehicle and notifies the driver of any detected speed limits or overtaking
restrictions. Within the limits of the system, the system also displays additional signs, e.g.
temporary restrictions, signs related to towing a trailer ⇒ Trailer towing or restrictions in wet
weather conditions. In some cases the system can also display the current speed limits on nonsignposted routes.

Country availability
At the time that this owner's manual went to print, Dynamic Road Sign Display was available in the
following countries:
Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Vatican City.

Displays
in addition to speed limits and overtaking restrictions, Dynamic Road Sign Display also detects the
sign which indicates that all restrictions have been lifted on motorways and main roads in Germany.
In all other countries, the current speed limit is displayed instead.
The road signs detected by Dynamic Road Sign Display are displayed on the instrument cluster

⇒ Fig. 19 and, depending on the version installed in the vehicle, also on the Infotainment system
⇒ Vehicle settings menu . In some equipment levels a notification also appears on the Head-up
Display ⇒ Instrument cluster .

Dynamic Road Sign Display texts

Cause and solution
The system is in the initialisation phase.

No road signs available

OR: the camera has not detected any
regulatory or warning signs.
System fault.

Error: Dynamic Road Sign Display

Go to a qualified workshop and have the
system checked.
Fault in the Dynamic Road Sign Display system

Speed warning currently not available.

speed warning.
Go to a qualified workshop and have the
system checked.

Dynamic Road Sign Display: clean
windscreen!

The area around the camera on the windscreen
is dirty.
Clean the windscreen.
No data transmission from the Infotainment
system.

Dynamic Road Sign Display is currently
restricted.

Check whether valid map data is loaded on the
Infotainment system.
OR: the vehicle is located in an area that is not
covered by the map stored on the Infotainment
system.

No data available

Dynamic Road Sign Display is not supported in
the country in which you are currently travelling.

Switching Dynamic Road Sign Display on and off in the instrument
cluster display
The continuous display of road signs in the instrument cluster can be activated and deactivated in
the Infotainment system using the
and

button or function button and the

Vehicle ,

Driver assistance function buttons.

Display of road signs
After validation and evaluation of the information from the camera, the Infotainment system and the
current vehicle data, the activated Dynamic Road Sign Display shows up to three valid road signs

⇒ Fig. 19

with the accompanying additional signs:

1st position:The road sign that currently applies for the driver is shown on the left-hand side of the
display, e.g. a speed limit of 130 km/h (80 mph) ⇒ Fig. 19

.2. position:traffic signs that do not

always apply (e.g. 100 km/h (60 mph) in wet) are shown in second place.Additional sign:if the
windscreen wiper is active while the vehicle is in motion, any road sign, for example with the
additional In wet conditions sign that now applies will be moved left to the first position.3.
position:Further road signs that do not always apply will be displayed in the third position, e.g.
overtaking temporarily not permitted ⇒ Fig. 19

.

Speed warning function
When the Dynamic Road Sign Display detects that an applicable speed limit has been exceeded, it
will issue an acoustic warning signal and display a message on the instrument cluster display.
The speed warning can be set or completely deactivated in the Infotainment system using the
button or function button and the

Vehicle ,

and

Driver assistance

function buttons ⇒ Vehicle settings menu . The settings can be adjusted in increments of 5 km/h (3
mph) within a range between 0 km/h (mph) and 15 km/h (9 mph) above the permitted maximum
speed.

Trailer mode
In vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket and a trailer with an electrical connection to the
vehicle, the display of road signs that may apply to the vehicle when towing a trailer, e.g. applicable
speed limits and no-overtaking signs, can be activated or deactivated in the Infotainment system

using the

button or function button and the

Vehicle ,

and

Driver assistance function buttons ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .
In trailer mode, the speed warning function display can be adjusted to the type of trailer or to legal
requirements. The settings can be adjusted in increments of 10 km/h (5 mph) within a range
between 60 km/h (40 mph) and 130 km/h (80 mph). If a higher speed is set than is permitted for
driving with a trailer in the country in which you are currently travelling, Dynamic Road Sign Display
automatically issues a warning at the usual speed limit, e.g. at 80 km/h (50 mph) in Germany.
If the speed warning for the trailer is deactivated, Dynamic Road Sign Display issues warnings as if
the vehicle was being driven without a trailer.

Functional limitations
Dynamic Road Sign Display is subject to system-related limitations. The following conditions can
restrict the function of Dynamic Road Sign Display, or prevent it from working altogether:
• Poor visibility, e.g. snow, rain, fog or heavy spray.
• Dazzling, e.g. from oncoming traffic or sunlight.
• High speeds.
• Covered or dirty camera.
• Traffic signs located outside of the camera's field of view.
• Partially or fully hidden traffic signs, e.g. by trees, snow, dirt or other vehicles.
• Non-standard traffic signs.
• Damaged or bent traffic signs.
• Variable traffic signs on gantries (changeable traffic sign display using LEDs or other light
sources).
• Out-of-date map material in the Infotainment system.
• Vehicles with traffic sign stickers, e.g. speed restrictions on trucks.

WARNING
The intelligent Dynamic Road Sign Display technology cannot overcome the laws of
physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Do not let the extra
convenience afforded by Dynamic Road Sign Display tempt you into taking any risks when
driving, as this can cause accidents. The system is not a substitute for the full
concentration of the driver.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Poor visibility, darkness, snow, rain and fog can cause road signs to be not displayed
or be incorrectly displayed by the system.
• If the camera's field of view is dirty, covered or damaged, the function of the Dynamic
Road Sign Display system may be impaired.

WARNING
Driving recommendations and traffic symbols displayed by the Dynamic Road Sign
Display system may differ from the current traffic situation.
• Not all road signs can be recognised by the system and displayed correctly.
• Road signs and traffic regulations have priority over the recommendations and
displays provided by the Dynamic Road Sign Display system.

NOTICE
Availability of the Dynamic Road Sign Display system is restricted in
waypoint navigation mode (waypoint navigation) of the Infotainment system.

Some settings can be saved in the user accounts of the personalisation function and can
therefore change automatically when the user account is changed ⇒ Personalisation .

Time
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• To set the time (on all vehicle clocks), press and hold the

button in the instrument

cluster while the doors are closed until the word Time appears in the instrument cluster display

⇒ Analogue instrument cluster or ⇒ Digital instrument cluster (Active Info Display) .
• Release the

button. The time is shown in the instrument cluster display and the hour

setting is marked.
• Then press the
the

button repeatedly until the required hour is displayed. Press and hold

button to scroll through quickly.

• Once you have set the hour, wait until the minutes display in the instrument cluster is marked.
• Then press the
the

button repeatedly until the required minute is displayed. Press and hold

button to scroll through quickly.

• Release the

button to finish setting the clock.

The analogue clock adjusts itself a few seconds after ignition is switched on.
You can also use the Infotainment system to adjust the time ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .

Fuel gauge

Fig. 20 In the instrument cluster: fuel gauge for petrol and diesel.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Fuel gauge
Lit up

Possible cause/remedy ⇒
Fuel tank almost empty. Reserve volume, red marking ⇒ Fig. 20 , is
consumed ⇒ Fuel tank capacity .
Fill the tank as soon as possible ⇒ Fuel types and refuelling .
Water in fuel in vehicles with a diesel engine.
Reduce the vehicle speed immediately and drive to the nearest qualified
workshop at a medium engine speed and avoiding high engine loading.
OR: if the warning lamp lights up immediately after filling the tank, switch off
the engine and seek expert assistance.

When the indicator lamp

lights up, the auxiliary heater and the fuel-powered supplementary

heater switch off automatically ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation .

WARNING
Driving when the fuel level is too low can lead to the vehicle coming to a standstill in
traffic, potentially causing accidents and serious injuries.
• When the fuel level is too low, the fuel supply to the engine could be irregular,
especially when driving up or down hills and inclines.
• The steering, all driver assist systems and brake support systems will not function if
the engine sputters or stops completely due to a lack of fuel or irregular fuel supply.
• Always fill the tank when it is still 1/4 full. This reduces the risk of running out of fuel
and breaking down.

NOTICE
Do not run the tank empty. Irregular filling periods can cause backfiring and allow unburnt
fuel to enter the exhaust system. The catalytic converter or diesel particulate filter could be
damaged as a result!

The small arrow next to the petrol pump symbol in the fuel gauge shows you the side of the
vehicle on which the tank flap is located.

Coolant temperature display

Fig. 21 In the instrument cluster: coolant temperature display (illustration).

First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
In normal driving conditions, the needle will be in the middle section of the scale. The temperature
may also rise when the engine is working hard, especially at high ambient temperatures.

Flashes

Needle
position

Possible

⇒ Fig. 21

Cause/remedy
Coolant temperature too high.
Do not drive on!

Ⓒ
Warning area

Stop the vehicle as soon as possible and when safe to do so.
Switch off the engine and leave the engine to cool down.
Until the indicator is back in the normal range. Checking the
coolant level

⇒ Engine coolant .
Coolant level too low.
After the engine has cooled down, check the coolant level and
Ⓑ
Normal area

refill if the level is too low.

⇒ Engine coolant .
If the warning lamp does not go out but the coolant level is
adequate, the problem lies in a fault in the coolant system.
Fault in the cooling system.
Do not drive on!

–

Stop the vehicle as soon as it is possible and safe to do so.
Switch off the engine.
Seek expert assistance.

Ⓐ

–

Cold area

The engine has not yet reached operating temperature.
Avoid high engine speeds and high engine loads until the
engine is warm.

Service interval display

Fig. 22 In the instrument cluster display: example of a display in the instrument cluster when a
service is due (illustration).

Fig. 23 In the Infotainment system: example of a display containing service information (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The service displays are shown on the instrument cluster ⇒ Fig. 22 and in the Infotainment system

⇒ Fig. 23 .
Versions and displays can vary as different versions of the instrument cluster and of the
Infotainment system are available.
In vehicles with fixed oil change service, services take place at predefined intervals.
The service intervals are calculated on an individual basis in vehicles with flexible oil change
service. Advances in technology have brought about a considerable reduction in servicing
requirements. An oil change service need be carried out only when required by the vehicle. The
individual conditions in which the vehicle is used, as well as the driver's personal driving style, are

taken into account. The service reminder is displayed 30 days before the service is due. The
distance is rounded to the nearest 100 km; the remaining time is rounded to full days.

Service alert
If a service or inspection is due soon, a service alert will appear when the ignition is switched on.
The number of kilometres or amount of time shown correspond to the maximum number of
kilometres or maximum time that can still be driven before the next service.

Service event
For a scheduled service or a scheduled inspection, a signal tone will be given when the ignition
is switched on and the spanner symbol

will be displayed for several seconds on the

instrument cluster display. One of the following displays will also appear ⇒ Fig. 22 :
Inspection now!
Oil service now!
Oil service and inspection now!

Viewing service appointments
You can access the current service schedule when the ignition is switched on, the engine is not
running, and the vehicle is stationary:
in the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster until the text

• Press and hold button

Service appears in the display.
• Release the

button. Information on the current scheduled service will be shown in the

display.
Service information ⇒ Fig. 23 can also be displayed in the Infotainment system by pressing the
button or function button and the

Vehicle ,

and

Service function

buttons ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

Resetting the service interval display
If the service or the inspection was not performed by a Volkswagen dealership, the display can be
reset as follows:
• Switch off the ignition.
button in the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster .

• Press and hold the
• Restart the ignition.
• Release button

if one of the following messages appears on the instrument cluster

display:
Reset oil change service?
Reset inspection service?
• Press the

button on the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster to confirm.

Do not reset the service interval display between service intervals otherwise incorrect data may be
shown.
If the oil change service was manually reset, the service interval display then also changes to a
fixed service interval in vehicles with flexible oil change service.

The service message will disappear after a few seconds, when the engine is running, or
when the

button on the windscreen wiper lever or the

button on the

multifunction steering wheel is pressed ⇒ Instrument cluster operation .
If the 12-volt vehicle battery was disconnected for long periods in vehicles with flexible
service, the system cannot calculate the time at which the next service is due. The information
shown in the service interval display may therefore be incorrect. If this is the case, please observe
the maximum permissible service intervals ⇒ Service .

Instrument cluster operation
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Operating using the wiper lever
⇒ Operating using the multifunction steering wheel
⇒ Button for driver assist systems
⇒ Additional displays and display options
Some menu options can only be opened when the vehicle is stationary.
There are no buttons on the wiper lever in vehicles equipped with a multifunction steering wheel

⇒ Operating using the wiper lever .

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted.
• Never operate the menus on the instrument cluster display while the vehicle is in
motion.

Check the system settings after charging or replacing the 12-volt vehicle battery. System
settings may be adjusted or deleted if the power supply is interrupted.

Operating using the wiper lever

Fig. 24 On the right of the steering column: buttons on the wiper lever (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If any priority 1 ⇒ Instrument cluster warnings are displayed, you will be unable to open any
menus. Some warnings can be confirmed and hidden with the ⇒ Fig. 24① button.

Selecting a menu or information display
• Switch on the ignition.
• Personalisation: select user.
• If a message or vehicle pictogram is displayed, press the ⇒ Fig. 24 ① button, several times if
necessary.
• To display the menus ⇒ Instrument cluster menus or to return from a menu or an information
display to the menu selection, hold down the rocker switch ⇒ Fig. 24② .
• To browse through the menus, press the rocker switch up or down.
• To open the displayed menu or information display, press the ⇒ Fig. 24① button or wait until
the menu or information display opens automatically after a few seconds.

Making settings in menus
• In the displayed menu, press the rocker switch ⇒ Fig. 24② up or down until the desired menu
option is marked. A frame appears around the selected option.
• Press button ⇒ Fig. 24① to make the necessary change. A tick indicates that the particular
system or function is active.

Returning to the selection menu
Select the menu option Back in each case to leave the current menu.

If warning messages about malfunctions are displayed when the ignition is switched on, it
may not be possible to adjust some settings as described, or the information display may appear
differently. If this is the case, take the vehicle to a qualified workshop to have the malfunction
rectified.

Operating using the multifunction steering wheel

Fig. 25 Right-hand side of the multifunction steering wheel: controls for using the menus and
information displays in the instrument cluster.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

If any priority 1 ⇒ Instrument cluster warning reports are being displayed, you will be unable to
open any menus. Some warnings can be confirmed and switched off with the

button on the

multifunction steering wheel ⇒ Fig. 25 .

Selecting a menu or information display
• Switch on the ignition.
• Personalisation: select user.
button ⇒ Fig. 25 , several

• If a message or the vehicle pictogram is displayed, press the
times if required.
• Press the

button to display a menu or browse through a menu ⇒ Fig. 25 .

or

⇒ Fig. 25 or wait until the menu or

• To open the menu or information display, press

information display opens automatically after a few seconds.

Making settings in menus
• In the displayed menu, press the arrow keys

or

⇒ Fig. 25 until the desired menu

option is marked. A frame appears around the selected option.

⇒ Fig. 25 to make the necessary change. A tick indicates that the

• Press button

particular system or function is active.

Returning to the selection menu
Press the

button ⇒ Fig. 25 .

or

If warning messages about malfunctions are displayed when the ignition is switched on, it
may not be possible to adjust some settings as described, or the information display may appear
differently. If this is the case, take the vehicle to a qualified workshop to have the malfunction
rectified.

Button for driver assist systems

Fig. 26 On the turn signal and main beam lever on the left of the steering column: button for driver
assist systems.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
You can switch the driver assist systems listed in the Assist systems menu ⇒ Instrument cluster
on and off using the button on the turn signal and main beam lever.

Switching individual driver assist systems on and off
• Press the button ⇒ Fig. 26 in the direction of the arrow to open the Assist systems menu.
• Select the driver assist system and switch it on or off ⇒ Instrument cluster operation . A tick
indicates that a driver assist system is switched on.
• Then confirm your selection by pressing the button
pressing the

on the wiper lever, or by

button on the multifunction steering wheel.

Driver assist systems can also be switched on and off in the Infotainment system by pressing the
button and the

Vehicle ,

and

Driver assistance function buttons

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

Additional displays and display options
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Assist systems menu:

Menu
Lane Assist

Front Assist

Function
Switching the lane keeping system (Lane Assist) on or off

⇒ Lane keeping system (Lane Assist) .
Switching the area monitoring system (Front Assist) on and off

⇒ Area monitoring system (Front Assist) .

Menu

Function

Side Assist

Switching the lane change system (Side Assist) on and off

⇒ Lane change system (Side Assist) incl. Rear Traffic Alert .
Switches Rear Traffic Alert on and off ⇒ Lane change system

Rear Traffic Alert

(Side Assist) incl. Rear Traffic Alert .
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) display ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control

ACC

(ACC) .

Operation and display in the Infotainment system
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Vehicle settings menu
⇒ Performance monitor
⇒ Lap timer
⇒ Personalisation

The Infotainment system brings
together key vehicle systems in a
central operating unit, e.g. menu
settings, radio or navigation system.

General information on operating the unit
The following section contains information on the settings that can be adjusted in the Vehicle
settings menu. Basic information on operating the Infotainment system and on warning and safety
instructions are contained in a separate manual ⇒BookletInfotainment system,.

Systems settings and display of vehicle information
After pressing the button or touching the function button

followed by the

Vehicle

function button, touch the corresponding function buttons to display information or make settings.
Touching the

function button in the Vehicle status menu queries the current status of the

systems and displays system faults.
• Vehicle settings (setup) ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .
• Think Blue. Trainer. ⇒ Think Blue. Trainer.
• Performance monitor ⇒ Performance monitor .
• Lap timer ⇒ Lap timer .
• Off-road display ⇒ Off-road display .
• Auxiliary heater settings ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation .
• Active media.
• Driving data.
• Vehicle status.
• Convenience consumers.
• Radio station selection.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted. Operating the Infotainment
system can distract you from the road.
• Always drive carefully and responsibly.

When you start the engine after the 12-volt vehicle battery has been totally discharged or
changed, you may find that system settings (time, date, personal convenience settings and
programming) and user accounts have been changed or deleted. Check and correct the settings as
necessary once the 12-volt vehicle battery has been sufficiently charged.

Vehicle settings menu
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening the Vehicle settings menu
• Switch on the ignition.
• If necessary, switch on the Infotainment system.
• Press the
• Touch the

button or function button.

Vehicle and

function buttons to open the Vehicle settings menu.

• Touch the corresponding function button to open additional menus in the Vehicle settings
menu, or to adjust settings in the menu items.

If the checkbox in the function button is ticked

Press the

, the respective function is switched on.

function button to return to the previous menu.

Menu overview
The following menu overview is an example of the Infotainment system menu structure. The actual
scope of the menus and the names of the individual menu items depend on the vehicle electronics
and the level of vehicle equipment.
Some menus and functions are not available in all countries or all vehicles.

Menu

Submenu

Setting options

Further
information

– Traction control system (TCS)
ESC system

–

– Electronic Stability Control (ESC)

⇒ Brake support

– Electronic Stability Control sport

systems

mode (ESC Sport)
Tyre Pressure
Monitoring
System
Tyre settings

Tyre Pressure
Loss Indicator

Select load level:
– Standard
– Comfort
– Fully loaded

systems

Store the tyre pressures SET.
Activation or deactivation of the speed

Winter tyres

⇒ Tyre monitoring

warning.

⇒ Wheels and
tyres

Setting the speed warning value.
Activation or deactivation of the last
selected distance.
ACC (Adaptive

– Gearbox programme

Cruise Control)

– Active distance setting (time interval

⇒ Adaptive
Cruise Control
(ACC)

to the vehicle ahead) when ACC is
switched on
Front Assist (area – Area monitoring system

monitoring

– Advance warning

system)

– Distance warning display

Pedestrian

– Pedestrian Monitoring

⇒ Pedestrian

Monitoring

– Advance warning

Monitoring

Lane Assist (lane

– Lane keeping system

keeping system)

– Adaptive lane guidance

Side Assist (lane

Activation and deactivation of the lane ⇒ Lane change
change system (Side Assist).
system (Side

Driver assist
settings

⇒ Area

monitoring

change system)

system (Front
Assist)

⇒ Lane keeping
system (Lane
Assist)

Setting the brightness of the display in Assist) incl. Rear
Traffic Alert
the exterior mirror.
– Show detected road signs in the

Does not apply in
Japan:Dynamic
Road Sign
Display

driving data display (multifunction
display)

⇒ Dynamic Road

– Trailer recognition (display of traffic

Sign Display

signs for vehicles with a trailer)

(Sign Assist)

– Activation and deactivation of the
speed warning

⇒ Driver Alert
Driver Alert

Activation or deactivation of the Driver System

System

Alert System.

(recommendation
for rest breaks)

Proactive pass.

Activation and deactivation of the

protection

proactive occupant protection system.

⇒ Proactive
occupant
protection system

Activation or deactivation of the Park
Distance Control
Activation or deactivation of automatic
ParkPilot
Parking and

activation of the Park Distance

⇒ Park Distance

Control.

Control

– Front and rear volume

manoeuvring

– Front and rear tone setting

settings

– Entertainment fading

⇒ Lane change
Rear Traffic Alert

Activation and deactivation of Rear

system (Side

Traffic Alert.

Assist) incl. Rear
Traffic Alert

Light settings

Light assistance

– Dynamic Light Assist
– Dynamic cornering light
– Automatic headlight control (in rain)
– Convenience turn signal

⇒ Lights

Menu

Submenu

Setting options

Further
information

– Travel mode (right-hand or left-hand
drive)
Interior lighting

– Instrument and switch lighting
– Footwell lighting
– Duration that the Coming Home

Coming
Home/Leaving
Home function

function is switched on
– Duration that the Leaving Home
function is switched on
– Overall brightness of the
background lighting

Background

–

lighting

– Brightness of individual areas of the
background lighting

⇒ Lights

– Colour of certain areas of the
background lighting
– Synchronous adjustment of the
exterior mirrors
Mirrors

– Front passenger exterior mirror

⇒ Mirrors

lowering function in reverse gear

Mirror and

– Folding in when parked

wiper settings

– Automatic wipe function when
Wipers

raining

⇒ Wipers

– Rear window wiping in reverse gear
Activation and deactivation of the

Window
operation

convenience opening function for the

⇒ Windows

windows.
Setting door unlocking.

Settings for
opening and

Activation or deactivation of automatic
Central locking

closing

locking.

⇒ Central locking
system

Activation and deactivation of the
Easy Open function.
Luggage

Activation or deactivation of automatic ⇒ Luggage

compartment

opening of the luggage compartment

compartment

cover

cover (vehicle-dependent).

cover

– Current consumption
– Average fuel consumption
– Refuel quantity
– Convenience consumers
– Eco tips
– Driving time
Instrument
cluster
settings

Multifunction

– Distance covered

display

– Average speed

⇒ Instrument
cluster

– Digital speed display
– Speed warning
– Oil temperature
– Dynamic Road Sign Display
– Since start driving data
– Long-term driving data
Display

Head-

– Colour scheme
– Cruise control system

up Display
settings

– Brightness

– ACC
Contents

⇒ Instrument
cluster

– Dynamic Road Sign Display
– Route guidance
– Lane keeping system (Lane Assist)
– Clock time source (manual, GPS)
– Time

Time and date
settings

– Set summer time automatically
–

– Time zone

–

– Time format (12h, 24h)
– Date
– Date format
– Distance
– Speed

Unit settings

–

– Temperature

–

– Volume
– Consumption
– Pressure
– Vehicle identification number

Service

–

– Date of next inspection
– Date of next oil change service

⇒ Instrument
cluster

– All settings
– Driver assistance
Factory
settings

– Parking and manoeuvring
–

– Light
– Mirrors and wipers
– Opening/closing
– Multifunction display (driving data)

–

Performance monitor
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The performance monitor is a display
for sporty driving. The digital
instruments display real-time values for
engine power, temperature and
acceleration that are determined by
sensors on the vehicle. This provides
the driver with an overview of driving
dynamics.

Fig. 27 On the Infotainment system display: Performance monitor.

Key for ⇒ Fig. 27
Display areas.
Arrow buttons for changing to the lap timer.

Opening the performance monitor
• Press the

MENU button on the Infotainment system.

• Touch the Vehicle function button.
• Touch the Selection function button.
• Touch the Sport function button.
If you would like to switch between the performance monitor and the lap timer ⇒ Lap timer , touch
one of the arrow buttons on the left and right above the instruments ⇒ Fig. 27 ②.

Selecting instruments and setting units
The display can show a maximum of three instruments at the same time. Each instrument can be
selected for each display area ⇒ Fig. 27 ① (left, middle, right).
To change instruments, swipe vertically over the display. The currently selected instrument will then
disappear and a new instrument will appear.
The units can be adjusted for some instruments in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and
display in the Infotainment system .

The following instruments can be displayed:
• Charge pressure display: the charge pressure display ⇒ Fig. 27 ① (left) shows the pressure
in the charge air system between the turbocharger and engine (in the unit bar). The further to
the right the needle on the scale, the higher the engine power output.
• Accelerometer (G-meter): The accelerometer (G-meter) ⇒ Fig. 27 ① (centre) shows the
acceleration value in the centre (in the unit g). The red marking in the grid-type area shows the
acceleration level and the direction of the acting force (in the opposite direction according to
physical laws). If you drive to the left, for example, the red marking will move in the right area of
the instrument (and vice versa). If you accelerate, the red marking will move down. If you brake,
the red marking will move up. The level of acceleration is indicated by the position of the red
marking which moves outwards. If the acceleration increases, the red marking will move away
from the centre area.
• Power display: the power display ⇒ Fig. 27 ① (right) shows the current engine power output
as a digital value and on the surrounding scale (in kW).
• Coolant temperature display: the needle may move further in a clockwise direction under high
engine loads and with high outside temperatures. This is no cause for concern unless the
indicator lamp in the instrument cluster display is lit up or flashing ⇒ Coolant temperature
display .
• Oil temperature display: the needle is in the middle area under normal driving conditions. If
the needle is in the bottom left area, this means that the engine has not yet reached its
operating temperature. Avoid excessively high speeds and acceleration when the engine has
not yet reached its operating temperature. The needle may move further in a clockwise direction
under high engine loads and at high outside temperatures. This is no cause for concern unless
the

indicator lamp in the instrument cluster display is lit up or flashing ⇒ Engine oil .

Adapting the display areas to the driving situation
Choose the three possible instruments corresponding to your individual driving style and the driving
situation.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted. Operating the Infotainment
system can distract you from the road.
• Always drive carefully and responsibly.

NOTICE
When starting from cold, avoid high engine speeds, driving at full throttle and over-loading
the engine.

Due to the principle of performance determination available in the vehicle, the physical
accuracy of the displayed values is not guaranteed.

Lap timer
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The lap timer provides you with the
option of timing your own laps manually
in the vehicle on a race track, storing
the times and comparing them with
previously measured best times.

Fig. 28 On the Infotainment system display: lap timer with stopwatch, function button and lap times.

Fig. 29 Function button on the Infotainment system display: time measurement for paused, current
and completed lap.

Key to ⇒ Fig. 28 and ⇒ Fig. 29 :
Stopwatch.
Function button with current lap time.
Stored lap times.
Start or continue time measurement.
Cancel current lap.
End time measurement.
Pause time measurement.

Start new lap.
Display split time.
Display statistics.

Opening the lap timer
To access the lap timer, first open the performance monitor ⇒ Performance monitor :
• Press the

MENU button on the Infotainment system.

• Touch the Vehicle function button.
• Touch the Selection function button.
• Touch the Sport function button to access the performance monitor.
• Touch one of the arrow buttons ⇒ Fig. 27② in the performance monitor to change to the lap
timer.
You can change between the lap timer and performance monitor at any time using the arrow
buttons ⇒ Fig. 27- 2- and ⇒ Fig. 28 .

Measuring lap times
The stopwatch measures the lap time in two areas:
The red needle and the numerical value in the centre show the running time in seconds. The
smaller display in the inner area shows minutes and hours.
The display on the right side shows the current lap time with an accuracy of 1/100 seconds. There
is no difference between the stopwatch and lap times if there are not yet any laps with intermediate
times stored in the lap timer.
Function

Operation
Touch the function button to start or continue

⇒ Fig. 29

④.

Time measurement is not possible when the ignition is switched off. A
Start or continue
time measurement

message is shown on the display.
Press Start to start time measurement. Time measurement starts as soon
as the vehicle moves forwards.
A new first lap can be started when the data in the statistics has been
reset.

End time
measurement
Pause time
measurement

Touch the function button to end measurement

⇒ Fig. 29

Touch the function button to pause measurement
Touch the function button to add a new lap ⇒ Fig. 29

Start new lap

⑥.

⇒ Fig. 29

⑦.

⑧.

The last lap time is stored and a new lap starts. The overall time of the
laps driven is shown in the statistics.
Touch the function button to cancel the current lap ⇒ Fig. 29

Cancel current lap

⑤.

During a running time measurement, touch the function button to pause
measurement

⑦. Time measurement is cancelled and the lap time

is deleted. --: --:--.-- is displayed in the statistics.
Display
intermediate time

Touch the function button for the intermediate time

⇒ Fig. 29

⑨.

The stopwatch ⇒ Fig. 28 ① stops for a few seconds and the intermediate
time is displayed.
After ending or cancelling time measurement, touch the function button for
the statistics ⇒ Fig. 29

Display statistics

⑩.

The statistics show the number of laps, the overall time, the fastest and
slowest laps, the average value of all lap times and all lap values.
Touch the

function button to go back to the previous menu.

Reset data in the

Touch the function button for statistics ⇒ Fig. 29

statistics

by touching the Reset function button.

⑩. Delete the data

A maximum of 99 laps and a maximum time of 99 hours, 59 minutes and 59 seconds can be
recorded. If one of these limits has been reached, the data in the statistics must be deleted before a
further time measurement.

WARNING
Avoid operating the lap timer when the vehicle is in motion if possible.
• Preset lap timer settings and access statistics only when the vehicle is stationary.
• When the vehicle is in motion, use the lap timer only in driving situations which are
easy to control.

Personalisation
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The personalisation function allows personalised vehicle settings, such as air conditioning system,
instrument cluster or lighting settings, to be saved in a user account. You have four user accounts
available. Users are identified using the vehicle key upon unlocking the vehicle. One user account
is assigned to each vehicle key.
Changes to the setup will be assigned to the active user account and saved upon locking the
vehicle or changing the user account.

Welcome and user account selection
When personalisation is activated, the name of the current user account appears on the instrument
cluster display for approximately ten seconds after you switch on the ignition.
During this time, you can select a user account using the buttons on the wiper lever or multifunction
steering wheel ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .
When you select a user account, the saved vehicle settings are activated.

User management and setup
When the ignition is switched on you can use the Personalisation menu in the Infotainment system
for user management and setup. Please proceed as follows to access the menu:
• Press the
• Touch the

button or function button.

Vehicle ,

function buttons and select Personalisation.

If the checkbox in the function button is ticked

, the respective function is switched on.

Menu

Submenu

Settings

Personalisation

Active

Switch personalisation on and off.

Driver 1

– Select a user account.
– Rename a user account (except Guest user
account).

Driver 2
Driver selection

– Copy the settings of the current user
account to another user account.

Driver 3

– Reset the stored settings of the selected
user account selected to the factory settings.

Driver Guest

The user name and vehicle key assignment
will not be changed.
Manual
A vehicle key is permanently assigned to a
user account.

Key assignment
Automatically
The vehicle key is automatically assigned to
the new, selected user account.

Settings
Assign key to current
user account

Assign a vehicle key to a user account.
Reset the setups of all user accounts, user

Reset all

account names and all vehicle key
assignments to default.

Switching user account
Select a user account in the Personalisation menu or in the Vehicle status menu.
• Press the
• Press the

button or function button.

Vehicle function button.

• Touch the

function button and select the desired user account.

Manually assigning vehicle keys to user accounts
You can assign a vehicle key to the currently active user account. For this purpose, select Manual
key assignment.
• Touch the

Settings function button.

• Select Personalisation.
• Touch the
• Press the

Assign key to current user account function button.
button on the vehicle key within five seconds ⇒ Vehicle key set .

Automatically assigning vehicle keys to user accounts
If you have selected Automatic key assignment, the following vehicle key is assigned to the user
account upon changing the user account:

• Vehicles without Keyless Access: vehicle key used to unlock the vehicle.
• Vehicles with Keyless Access: vehicle key that is identified first by the personalisation function
upon opening the driver door.

Personalised vehicle setup
The vehicle equipment and functions that can be personalised include the following:
• Open and close (single door unlocking, window convenience opening etc.)
• Light and vision (daytime running lights, cornering light, convenience turn signal etc.)
• Air conditioning system (temperature settings, ventilation etc.)
• Assistance systems (Park Distance Control, ACC, Dynamic Road Sign Display etc.)
• Driver profile selection (driver profiles etc.)
• Multifunction display and instrument cluster (selection of displays)
• Infotainment system (brightness and saved stations)
• Seat setup (seat position)
A new vehicle key will be assigned to the current user account. To assign the vehicle key to
a different user account, select the user account you want and manually assign it to the vehicle key.

Safety
General notes
Checklist
Observe the following information both before and during every journey to ensure your own
safety, and the safety of all passengers and other road users ⇒

:

Check that all lights and turn signals are working properly.
Check the tyre pressure and fuel level Wheels and tyres, Fuel types and refuelling.
Ensure that you have a good, clear view through all of the windows.
Air intake to the engine must not be obstructed, and the engine must not be covered with
any kind of insulating materials In the engine compartment.
Secure any objects and luggage in the stowage compartments, the luggage compartment
or on the roof Transporting.
Ensure that you are able to operate the pedals freely at all times.
Secure any children travelling in the vehicle in a restraint system suitable for their weight
and size Safe transport of children.
Adjust the front seats, head restraints and mirrors properly in accordance with the size of
the occupants Sitting position, Mirrors.
Wear shoes that provide good grip for your feet when using the pedals.
The floor mat in the footwell on the driver side must leave the pedal area free and must be
securely fastened.
Assume a correct sitting position before setting off and maintain this position while driving.
This also applies to all passengers Sitting position.
Fasten your seat belt correctly before setting off and keep it properly fastened throughout
the journey. This also applies to all passengers Seat belts.
Each vehicle occupant must sit in a seat of their own and must have their own seat belt.
Never drive if your driving ability is impaired, e.g. by medication, alcohol or drugs.
Do not allow yourself to be distracted from the traffic, e.g. by passengers, telephone calls,
opening menus and making adjustments to settings.
Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
Observe traffic regulations and speed limits.
Take regular breaks when travelling long distances – at least every two hours.
Secure animals in the vehicle using a system that is suitable for their weight and size.

Checklist
In some countries, special safety standards and emissions-related regulations apply that the
vehicle may not comply with. Volkswagen recommends that you visit your Volkswagen
dealership before travelling abroad to find out about any legal requirements and the
following issues at your destination:
Does the vehicle need any technical modifications for driving abroad, e.g. masking or
switching the headlights over?
Are the necessary tools, diagnostic equipment and spare parts available for service and
repair work?
Are there any Volkswagen dealerships in the destination country?

If fuel in the adequate quality available Fuel and emission control?
Are the correct service fluids that comply with Volkswagen specifications available in the
destination country Service fluids and consumables?
Will the navigation function in the factory-fitted Infotainment system and the navigation
data available work in the destination country?
Are special tyres necessary for travelling in the destination country?
Is a fire extinguisher prescribed in your destination country?
Which requirements must be observed regarding reflective vests?

Checklist
Therefore, do not do any work in the engine compartment unless you know exactly how to
carry out the jobs, are aware of the general safety procedures and have the correct
equipment, service fluids and suitable tools to hand ⇒ In the engine compartment ! In any
other case all work must be carried out by a qualified workshop. Make sure that the
following are checked regularly:
Windscreen washer fluid level Wipers.
Engine oil level Engine oil.
Engine coolant level Engine coolant.
Brake fluid level Brake fluid.
Tyre pressure Wheels and tyres.
Vehicle lighting Lights required for the vehicle to be roadworthy:
- Turn signals
- Side lights, dipped beam headlights and main beam headlights
- Tail light cluster
- Brake lights
- Rear fog light
- Number plate light.

WARNING
Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, medication or narcotics can cause serious
accidents and fatal injuries.
• Alcohol, drugs, medication and narcotics can severely impair perception, reaction
times and driving safety. This could cause you to lose control of the vehicle.

WARNING
Always observe current traffic regulations and speed limits, and think ahead when driving.
Correct interpretation of a driving situation can make the difference between reaching
your destination safely and having an accident with serious injuries.

NOTICE
Volkswagen is not responsible for any vehicle damage caused by low-quality fuel,
inadequate servicing work or lack of Genuine Parts.

NOTICE
Observe the instructions and information relating to vehicles with N1 approval

⇒ Information about vehicles with N1 approval (light commercial vehicle) .

Servicing the vehicle is not only about vehicle maintenance – it also ensures that your
vehicle remains roadworthy and in perfect working order. You should therefore have your vehicle
serviced according to Volkswagen guidelines. Some work may have to be carried out before the
due date of the next service if the vehicle is subjected to severe operating conditions. Severe
operating conditions are, for example, regular stop and go driving or driving in areas with high
levels of dust. Further information can be obtained from your Volkswagen dealership or a qualified
workshop.

Sitting position
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Dangers of assuming an incorrect sitting position
⇒ Correct sitting position

Number of seats
The vehicle has a total of five seats: two seats at the front and three seats at the rear. Each seat is
equipped with a seat belt.

WARNING
Assuming an incorrect sitting position in the vehicle can increase the risk of severe or
fatal injuries during a sudden driving or braking manoeuvre, in the event of a collision or
accident, or if the airbags are triggered.
• All vehicle occupants must assume a correct sitting position before setting off and
maintain this position throughout the trip. This also applies to the fastening of seat
belts.
• The number of vehicle occupants must never exceed the number of seats with seat
belts in the vehicle.
• Always secure children in the vehicle in an authorised restraint system which is
suitable for their height and weight ⇒ Safe transport of children and ⇒ Airbag system .
• Always keep your feet in the footwell while the vehicle is in motion. Never place your
feet on the seat or dash panel, for example, and never ride with your feet out the
window. When you are sat like this, the airbag and seat belt cannot provide optimal
protection and could actually increase the risk of injury during an accident.

Dangers of assuming an incorrect sitting position
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If the seat belts are not worn or are worn incorrectly, the risk of severe or fatal injuries increases.
Seat belts can only provide optimal protection if the seat belt routing is correct. Assuming an
incorrect sitting position considerably impairs the level of protection provided by a seat belt. This
could lead to severe or even fatal injuries. The risk of severe or fatal injuries is especially increased
when a deploying airbag strikes a vehicle occupant who has assumed an incorrect sitting position.
The driver is responsible for all occupants transported in the vehicle, especially children.
The following list contains examples of sitting positions that can be dangerous for all vehicle
occupants.

Whenever the vehicle is in motion:
• Never stand in the vehicle.
• Never stand on the seats.
• Never kneel on the seats.
• Never tilt the backrest too far to the rear.
• Never lean against the dash panel.
• Never lie on the rear bench seat.
• Never sit on the front edge of a seat.
• Never sit sideways.
• Never lean out of a window.
• Never put your feet out of a window.
• Never put your feet on the dash panel.
• Never place your feet on the seat cushion or seat backrest.
• Never travel in a footwell.
• Never sit on the armrests.
• Never travel on a seat without wearing the seat belt.
• Never travel in the luggage compartment.

WARNING
Every incorrect sitting position in the vehicle increases the risk of severe or fatal injuries
in the event of an accident or sudden driving or braking manoeuvre.
• All vehicle occupants must maintain a correct sitting position and wear their seat belt
properly while the vehicle is in motion.
• Sitting in an incorrect position, not fastening the seat belt, or not leaving adequate
space between the occupants and the airbags could result in critical or fatal injuries,
especially if the airbags deploy and strike an occupant who has assumed an incorrect
sitting position.

Correct sitting position

Fig. 30 Illustration: correct distance between the driver and the steering wheel, correct seat belt
routing and correct head restraint adjustment.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following details the correct sitting positions for the driver and passengers.
If any vehicle occupants cannot assume a correct sitting position due to their physical build, they
should contact a qualified workshop to find out about possible special modifications. The seat belts
and airbags can only provide a maximum level of protection if a correct sitting position is assumed.
Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.
Volkswagen recommends the following seating position for your own safety and to reduce the level
of injury in the event of a sudden braking manoeuvre or an accident:

The following applies to all vehicle occupants:
• Adjust the head restraint so that its upper edge is at the same height as the top of the head, but
not lower than eye level. Position the back of your head as close to the head restraint as
possible ⇒ Fig. 30 .
• For small people, push the head restraint all the way down, even if the head is then located
underneath the top edge of the head restraint.
• For taller people, push the head restraint up as far as it will go.
• Keep both feet in the footwell while the vehicle is in motion.
• Adjust and fasten seat belts properly ⇒ Seat belts .

Additional points for the driver:
• In vehicles with head restraints that can be moved backwards and forwards, position the head
restraint as close as possible to the back of your head.
• Move the backrest into an upright position so that your back rests fully against it.
• Adjust the steering wheel so that the distance between the steering wheel and your breastbone
is at least 25 cm ⇒ Fig. 30Ⓐ , and the circumference of the steering wheel can be held at the
sides with both hands and your arms slightly bent ⇒ Steering wheel .
• The steering wheel must always point towards the breastbone and not towards the face.
• Adjust the driver seat by moving it forwards or backwards so that you are able to press the
pedals to the floor with your knees still slightly bent and so that the distance from the dash
panel to your knees is at least 10 cm ⇒ Fig. 30Ⓑ .
• Adjust the height so that you can reach the highest point of the steering wheel.
• Always leave both feet in the footwell, to help ensure you maintain control of the vehicle at all
times.

Additional points for the front passenger:
• In vehicles with head restraints that can be moved backwards and forwards, position the head
restraint as close as possible to the back of your head.
• Move the backrest into an upright position so that your back rests fully against it.
• Push the front passenger seat as far back as possible so that the airbag can provide maximum
protection if it is deployed.

Seat belts
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Warning lamp
⇒ Frontal collisions and the laws of physics
⇒ What happens to vehicle occupants who have not fastened their seat belts
⇒ Seat belt protection
⇒ Using seat belts
⇒ Fastening and unfastening seat belts
⇒ Seat belt routing
⇒ Seat belt height adjuster
⇒ Belt retractor, belt tensioner, belt tension limiter
⇒ Service and disposal of belt tensioners
⇒ Proactive occupant protection system
Check the condition of all seat belts regularly. If the belt webbing, belt connections, belt retractor or
seat belt buckle become damaged, the seat belt in question should be replaced immediately by a
qualified workshop ⇒

. The qualified workshop must use correct spare parts that are compatible

with the vehicle, equipment level and model year. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen
dealership for this purpose.

WARNING
Incorrectly fastened or unfastened seat belts increase the risk of severe or fatal injuries.
Seat belts will only offer the optimum level of protection when they are fastened and used
properly.
• Seat belts are the most effective means of reducing the risk of serious and fatal injuries
in the event of an accident. Seat belts must always be fastened properly when the
vehicle is in motion to protect the driver and all vehicle occupants.
• Before every trip, each vehicle occupant must adopt the correct sitting position,
correctly fasten the seat belt belonging to their seat and keep it fastened properly
throughout the trip. This applies to all vehicle occupants and also in urban traffic.
• While the vehicle is in motion, secure all children travelling in the vehicle in a restraint
system suitable for their weight and height. They must also wear correctly fastened
seat belts ⇒ Safe transport of children .
• Only start driving when all passengers have correctly fastened their seat belts.
• Only ever insert the latch plate into the buckle of the associated seat, and always
ensure that it engages properly. Using a buckle that does not belong to the seat that
you are occupying reduces the level of protection and can lead to severe injuries.
• Avoid allowing foreign bodies or liquids to enter the slot for the seat belt buckle. This
could prevent the belt buckle and seat belt from working properly.
• Never unfasten the seat belt while the vehicle is in motion.
• Never allow more than one person to share the same seat belt.
• Never travel when children or babies are being carried on somebody's lap and fastened
with the same belt.
• Never travel wearing loose, bulky clothing (such as an overcoat over a jacket). This
could prevent the seat belts from fitting and functioning properly.

WARNING
Damaged seat belts are very dangerous and can cause severe or fatal injuries.
• Never damage the belt by trapping it in the door or in the seat mechanism.
• If the belt webbing or any other part of the seat belt becomes damaged, the seat belt
may tear during an accident or sudden braking manoeuvre.
• Have damaged seat belts immediately replaced by new seat belts that have been
approved by Volkswagen for the vehicle. Seat belts subjected to stress and stretched
during an accident must be replaced by a qualified workshop. Renewal may be
necessary even if there is no apparent damage. The belt anchorage should also be
checked.
• Never try to repair, modify or remove the seat belts yourself. All repairs to the seat
belts, belt retractors and buckles must be carried out by a qualified workshop.

Warning lamp

Fig. 31 On the instrument cluster display: warning lamp.

Fig. 32 On the instrument cluster display: seat belt status for the rear seats.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
A signal tone will be emitted for a few seconds if the seat belts are not fastened as the vehicle pulls
off and reaches a speed of more than approximately 25 km/h (15 mph), or if the seat belts are
unfastened while the vehicle is in motion. This is accompanied by the flashing warning lamp

⇒ Fig. 31 .
The warning lamp

does not go out until the driver and front passenger fasten their seat belts

while the ignition is switched on.

Belt status display for the rear seats
After the ignition has been switched on, the belt status display ⇒ Fig. 32 on the instrument cluster
display shows the driver whether the rear seat passengers have fastened their seat belts. The
symbol

indicates that the passenger on this seat has fastened their seat belt. The symbol

indicates that the seatbelt has not been fastened.
The belt status display will be shown for approximately 30 seconds if a seat belt is fastened or
unfastened on the rear seats. The display can be hidden by pressing the

button in the

instrument cluster.
If a seat belt for one of the rear seats is unfastened while the vehicle is in motion, the belt status
display will flash for a maximum of 30 seconds. If the vehicle is travelling faster than approximately
25 km/h (15 mph), a signal tone will also sound.

WARNING
Incorrectly fastened or unfastened seat belts increase the risk of severe or fatal injuries.
Seat belts will only offer the optimum level of protection when they are fastened and used
properly.

Frontal collisions and the laws of physics

Fig. 33 Unbelted occupants in a vehicle heading for a brick wall.

Fig. 34 Unbelted occupants in a vehicle striking a brick wall.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The physical principles involved in a frontal collision are relatively simple. As soon as the vehicle is
in motion ⇒ Fig. 33 , both the moving vehicle and its passengers gain kinetic energy.
The higher the vehicle speed and the heavier the weight of the vehicle, the greater the amount of
energy that will have to be released in the event of an accident.
However, the most significant factor is the speed of the vehicle. For example, if the speed doubles
from 25 km/h to 50 km/h (15 mph to 31 mph), the kinetic energy increases by a factor of four.
The amount of kinetic energy depends on the speed of the vehicle and the weight of the vehicle
and passengers. The higher the speed and the heavier the weight, the greater the amount of
energy that will be released in the event of an accident.
Passengers not wearing seat belts are not connected to the vehicle. In the event of a frontal
collision they will continue to move forwards at the same speed at which the vehicle was travelling
before impact, until something stops them. Because the passengers in our example are not
restrained by seat belts, the entire amount of kinetic energy will be released only at the point of
impact against the wall ⇒ Fig. 34 .
Even at speeds of approximately 30 km/h (19 mph) to approximately 50 km/h (31 mph), the forces
acting on bodies in a collision can easily exceed one tonne (1,000 kg). These forces are even
greater at higher speeds.
This example applies not only to frontal collisions, but to all accidents and collisions.

What happens to vehicle occupants who have not fastened their
seat belts

Fig. 35 An unbelted driver is thrown forwards.

Fig. 36 The unbelted rear passenger is thrown forwards, hitting the belted driver.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Many people believe that they can brace their weight with their hands in a minor collision. This is
not true.
Even at low speeds, the forces acting on the body in a collision are so great that it is not possible to
brace oneself with arms and hands. In a frontal collision, vehicle occupants who have not fastened
their seat belts will be thrown forward and will make unchecked contact with parts of the vehicle
interior, e.g. the steering wheel, dash panel, or windscreen ⇒ Fig. 35 .
The airbag system is not a substitute for the seat belts. When triggered, the airbags only provide
additional protection. Airbags are not triggered in all kinds of accidents. Even if the vehicle is
equipped with an airbag system, all vehicle occupants, including the driver, must fasten their seat
belt and wear it correctly while the vehicle is in motion. This reduces the risk of severe or fatal
injuries in the event of an accident – regardless of whether an airbag is fitted for the seat.
Each airbag can only be triggered once. To achieve best possible protection, seat belts must
always be worn properly. This also ensures that protection is provided in accidents in which the
airbag is not triggered. Any vehicle occupants not wearing a seat belt can be thrown out of the
vehicle and sustain more severe or even fatal injuries as a result.
It is also important for the rear seat occupants to wear seat belts properly, as they could otherwise
be thrown forwards violently in an accident. Rear passengers who are not wearing seat belts
endanger not only themselves and the driver, but also other people in the vehicle ⇒ Fig. 36 .

Seat belt protection

Fig. 37 Driver restrained by a properly positioned seat belt during a sudden braking manoeuvre.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Correctly fastened seat belts can make a major difference. When fastened properly, seat belts hold
the vehicle occupants in the correct sitting positions and considerably reduce the kinetic energy in
the event of an accident. Seat belts also help to prevent uncontrolled movements that could lead to
severe injuries. In addition, wearing seat belts properly reduces the risk of being thrown from the
vehicle ⇒ Fig. 37 .
Passengers wearing seat belts correctly benefit greatly from the ability of the belts to reduce the
kinetic energy. The front crumple zones and other passive safety features (such as the airbag
system) are also designed to reduce kinetic energy. The amount of energy generated will thus
decrease, thereby reducing the risk of injury.
The examples describe frontal collisions. Of course, properly worn seat belts substantially reduce
the risk of injury in all other types of accidents. This is why seat belts must be fastened before every

trip – even if you are only planning to drive a very short distance. Ensure that all passengers also
wear their seat belts properly.
Accident statistics have shown properly worn seat belts to be an effective means of substantially
reducing the risk of injury and improving the chances of survival in a serious accident. Furthermore,
properly worn seat belts improve the protection provided by airbags in the event of an accident.
This is why wearing a seat belt is a legal requirement in most countries.
Although the vehicle is equipped with airbags, the seat belts must be fastened and worn. For
example, the front airbags will be triggered only in certain types of frontal collision. The front airbags
will not be triggered during minor frontal collisions, minor side collisions, rear collisions, rolls or
accidents in which the airbag trigger threshold in the control unit is not exceeded.
Therefore, always wear your seat belt and ensure that your passengers have fastened their seat
belts properly before you drive off.

Using seat belts
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Checklist
Using seat belts ⇒

:

Check the condition of all seat belts regularly.
Keep the seat belts clean.
Avoid allowing any foreign substances or liquids to get on to the seat belt or latch plate or
into the slot in the seat belt buckle.
Do not trap or damage the seat belt and latch plate, for example when closing the door.
Never remove, modify or repair the seat belt or any part of the belt fixture system.
Always fasten the seat belt correctly before every journey and keep it fastened while the
vehicle is in motion.

Twisted seat belt
If it is difficult to remove the seat belt from the belt guide, the seat belt may have become twisted if
it was returned too quickly into the side trim:
• Take hold of the latch plate then slowly and carefully pull out the seat belt.
• Untwist the seat belt and guide it back slowly by hand.
Fasten the seat belt even if you are unable to undo the twist. However, the twist should not be in
part of the seat belt that comes into direct contact with the body. The twist should be corrected
immediately by a qualified workshop.

WARNING
Using seat belts incorrectly increases the risk of severe or fatal injuries.
• Regularly check to see if the seat belt and its related parts are in perfect condition.
• Always keep the seat belt clean.
• Do not allow the belt webbing to become jammed, damaged or to rub on any sharp
edges.
• Always keep the latch plate and slot in the buckle free from foreign bodies and liquids.

Fastening and unfastening seat belts

Fig. 38 Inserting the seat belt latch plate into the buckle.

Fig. 39 Removing the latch plate from the buckle.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If worn properly, seat belts hold the vehicle occupants in the correct sitting position during an
accident or braking manoeuvre, providing maximum protection ⇒

.

Fastening the seat belts
Fasten seat belts before every trip.
• Always adjust the front seat and head restraint correctly ⇒ Sitting position .
• Engage the rear seat backrest in an upright position ⇒

.

• Take hold of the belt and pull it evenly across your chest and pelvis. Do not twist the belt in the
process ⇒

.

• Insert the latch plate securely into the buckle belonging to the occupied seat ⇒ Fig. 38 .
• Pull on the seat belt to ensure that the latch plate is securely locked in the buckle.

Unfastening the seat belts
Unfasten seat belts only when the vehicle is stationary ⇒

.

• Press the red button in the buckle ⇒ Fig. 39 . The latch plate is released and springs out.
• Guide the belt back by hand so that it rolls up easily, without twisting the seat belt and without
damaging the trim.

Lockable seat belt
When the belt webbing has been completely retracted and a clicking sound can be heard as the
seat belt is being rolled up, the vehicle is equipped with lockable seat belts. The seat belt locking
function should be used only for fitting certain child restraint systems ⇒ Safe transport of children .
A locked seat belt must be released when a vehicle occupant uses the seat belt.

WARNING
Incorrect seat belt routing can cause severe or fatal injuries in the event of an accident.
• The seat belts only offer best protection when the backrests are in an upright position
and the seat belts have been fastened properly according to the occupant's height.
• Unfastening seat belts while the vehicle is in motion can lead to severe or fatal injuries
in the event of an accident or sudden braking manoeuvre.

Seat belt routing

Fig. 40 Correct seat belt routing and head restraint adjustment.

Fig. 41 Correct seat belt routing during pregnancy.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Seat belts only provide an optimum level of protection during an accident when they are routed
correctly. Correct seat belt routing reduces the risk of severe or fatal injuries. Correct seat belt
routing also holds the vehicle occupants in position so that an inflating airbag can offer the
maximum level of protection. Therefore you must always fasten your seat belt and ensure that the
seat belt routing is correct ⇒ Fig. 40 .

Assuming an incorrect sitting position can cause severe or fatal injuries ⇒ Sitting position .

Correct seat belt routing
• The shoulder part of the seat belt must always lie on the centre of the shoulder, never across
the neck, over or under the arm or behind the back.
• The lap part of the seat belt must always lie across the pelvis, never across the stomach.
• The seat belt must always lie flat and snugly on the body. Tighten the belt if necessary.
For pregnant women the seat belt must be positioned evenly over the chest and as low as
possible over the pelvis. It must lie flat so that no pressure is exerted on the lower body – this
applies in every stage of pregnancy ⇒ Fig. 41 .

Correct seat belt routing according to height
The following equipment can be used to adjust the seat belt routing:
• Seat belt height adjuster for the front seats ⇒ Seat belt height adjuster .
• Height-adjustable front seats ⇒ Sitting position .

WARNING
Incorrect seat belt routing can cause severe injuries in the event of an accident or a
sudden braking or driving manoeuvre.
• The seat belts only offer best protection when the backrests are in an upright position
and the seat belts have been fastened properly.
• The seat belt itself or a loose seat belt can cause serious injuries if the seat belt shifts
from harder body parts in the direction of softer body parts (e.g. stomach).
• The shoulder part of the seat belt must lie on the centre of the shoulder and never
under the arm or across the neck.
• The seat belt must lie flat and snugly on the chest.
• The lap part of the seat belt must lie across the pelvis and never across the stomach.
The seat belt must lie flat and snugly on the pelvis. Tighten the belt if necessary.
• For pregnant women, the lap part of the seat belt must be as low as possible over the
pelvis and lie flat around the bulge of the belly.
• Do not twist the belt webbing while the seat belt is being worn.
• Never hold the seat belt away from the body by hand.
• The belt webbing should not lie over hard or fragile objects, such as glasses, pens or
keys.
• Never use seat belt clips, retaining rings or similar items to alter the seat belt routing.

If a person's physical build prevents them from routing the seat belt properly, contact a
qualified workshop to find out about any special modifications so that the seat belts and airbags can
provide the optimum level of protection. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership
for this purpose.

Seat belt height adjuster

Fig. 42 Next to the front seats: belt height adjuster.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The seat belt height adjusters for the front seats can be used to adjust the position of the seat belt
on the shoulder so that it can be fastened properly:
• Push the shoulder belt guide together in the direction of the arrows and hold ⇒ Fig. 42 .
• Push the shoulder belt guide up or down so that the seat belt lies over the middle of the
shoulder ⇒ Seat belt routing .
• Let go of the shoulder belt guide.
• Pull sharply on the seat belt to check whether the shoulder belt guide is engaged securely.

WARNING
Never adjust the seat belt height when the vehicle is in motion.

Belt retractor, belt tensioner, belt tension limiter
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The seat belts in the vehicle are part of the vehicle safety concept ⇒ Airbag system and include the
following important functions:

Automatic belt retractor
Every seat belt is equipped with an automatic belt retractor on the shoulder part of the belt. Full
freedom of movement is made possible when the shoulder belt is pulled slowly or when the vehicle
is travelling at normal speeds. However, if the belt is pulled out quickly or during sudden braking,
during travel in mountains or bends and during acceleration, the automatic belt retractor is locked.
Fastened seat belts on the front seats may be tensioned automatically by the proactive occupant
protection system in critical situations, for example during emergency braking or as a result of
oversteering or understeering. Both seat belts are slackened if the accident does not happen, or
when the critical situation has passed. The proactive occupant protection system is ready to be
triggered again ⇒ Proactive occupant protection system .

Belt tensioners
The seat belts for the front seat vehicle occupants, and in some cases those on the outer rear
seats, are equipped with belt tensioners.
The belt tensioners are activated by sensors during severe frontal, side and rear collisions. They
tighten the seat belts against the direction in which they are pulled. Any slack in the seat belt is
retracted, which can reduce the passenger's movement forwards or in the direction of the impact.
The belt tensioner works together with the airbag system. If the vehicle rolls over, the belt
tensioners will not be activated if the side airbags are not triggered.
A fine dust may be produced when the airbags are triggered. This is quite normal and does not
mean that there is a fire in the vehicle.

Reversible belt tensioning (proactive occupant protection system)
Reversible belt tensioning may trigger in certain driving situations. For example:
• Heavy braking,
• Oversteer or understeer,
• Minor collisions.

⇒ Proactive occupant protection system

Belt tension limiter
The belt tension limiter reduces the pressure exerted by the seat belt on the body during an
accident.

All safety requirements must be observed when the vehicle or components of the system are
scrapped. Qualified workshops are familiar with these requirements ⇒ Service and disposal of belt
tensioners .

Service and disposal of belt tensioners
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Seat belts may become damaged during any work on the belt tensioners or while removing or
refitting any vehicle parts in conjunction with any other repair work. This damage will not always be
noticeable. The consequence may be that the belt tensioners could function incorrectly, or not
function at all, in the event of an accident.
Regulations must be observed to ensure that the effectiveness of the belt tensioner is not reduced
and that removed parts do not cause any injuries or environmental pollution. Qualified workshops
are familiar with these requirements.

WARNING
The risk of severe or fatal injuries may be increased if the seat belts, automatic belt
retractors and belt tensioners are not used correctly, or if they are repaired by a nonprofessional. As a result, the belt tensioners may not be triggered when they should, or
they may be triggered unexpectedly.
• Any repairs, adjustments or removal and refitting of parts in the belt tensioners or seat
belts should always be carried out by a qualified workshop and never by yourself

⇒ Accessories, modifications, repairs and renewal of parts .
• Belt tensioners and automatic belt retractors cannot be repaired. They must be
replaced.

The airbag modules and belt tensioners may contain perchlorate. Please comply with
legislation regarding disposal.

Proactive occupant protection system
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The proactive occupant protection system is an assistance system that initiates action to protect
vehicle occupants in dangerous situations. However, the system cannot prevent a collision.
The full range of functions of the proactive occupant protection system will be available only if the
function has been activated in the Infotainment system, no special driving profile has been selected
and there are no malfunctions ⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control , ⇒ Function
limitations .

Basic functions
Depending on country-specific legal requirements and also on the vehicle equipment, the following
functions may be initiated, either individually or jointly, in critical situations (e.g. emergency braking
or in the case of oversteering or understeering) as of a speed of approximately 30 km/h (19 mph):
• Temporary tensioning of the fastened front seat belts.
• Automatic closing of the glass roof and side windows down to a gap, depending on the vehicle
equipment.
The belts may be tensioned individually or together depending on the respective critical driving
situations.

Additional information for vehicles with an area monitoring system (Front
Assist)
In vehicles fitted with the area monitoring system (Front Assist) ⇒ Area monitoring system (Front
Assist) , the probability of a collision with the vehicle ahead is also calculated within the system
limits. The system can trigger the proactive occupant protection system if it detects a probable
collision or initiates strong braking.

Settings in the Infotainment system
The full range of functions of the proactive occupant protection system can be activated and
deactivated in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .
The proactive occupant protection system will be reactivated every time the ignition is switched on.
It may not be possible to operate the setting function if the proactive occupant protection system
has already been adapted to the specific vehicle setup.

Setting in driving profile selection
In vehicles with driving profile selection, the proactive occupant protection system is adapted to the
special vehicle setup of the respective driving profile ⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION
Active Control .

Function limitations
The proactive occupant protection system will not be available, or will only be available to a limited
extent, in the following situations:
• If there is a fault in the ESC, belt tensioner or in the airbag control unit ⇒ Seat belts or ⇒ Airbag
system .
• When the TCS or ESC are switched off, and when the vehicle is reversing ⇒ Brake support
systems .
• The temporary tensioning for the front passenger seat is switched off if the front passenger front
airbag is deactivated.
• If there is a system fault in the area monitoring system (Front Assist) ⇒ Area monitoring system
(Front Assist) .

Troubleshooting
If there is a malfunction in the proactive occupant protection system, the message Proactive
occupant protection unavailable or Proactive occupant protection: function restricted is
shown permanently on the instrument cluster display.
Go to a qualified workshop and have the system checked.

WARNING
The intelligent technology of the proactive occupant protection system cannot overcome
the laws of physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Never let the extra
convenience afforded by the proactive occupant protection system tempt you into taking
any risks when driving. The system cannot prevent a collision. The system is not a
substitute for the full concentration of the driver.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• The system cannot detect objects in all situations.
• The proactive occupant protection system does not react to people, animals, objects
crossing in front of the vehicle, or objects which are hard to make out.
• Reflective objects such as safety barriers, tunnel entrances, heavy rain and ice can
impair the function of the proactive occupant protection system and thus prevent it
from detecting a collision risk.
• Incorrect system activation can occur.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted.
• Never change settings in the Infotainment system when the vehicle is in motion.

WARNING
Failure to observe illuminated warning lamps and text messages can lead to your vehicle
breaking down in traffic, and can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Never ignore any illuminated warning lamps or text messages.
• Stop the vehicle as soon as it is possible and safe to do so.

NOTICE
Failure to observe illuminated indicator lamps and text messages can lead to your vehicle
being damaged.

Airbag system
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Types of front passenger front airbag system
⇒ Indicator lamp
⇒ Description and function of the airbags
⇒ Front airbags
⇒ Switching the front passenger front airbag on and off
⇒ Side airbags
⇒ Curtain airbags
⇒ Knee airbags
The vehicle is equipped with a front airbag for the driver and front passenger. The front airbags can
provide front seat occupants with additional chest and head protection if the seat, seat belts, head
restraints and, in the case of the driver, steering wheel are adjusted and used correctly. Airbags are
meant only for additional protection. The airbags are not a substitute for seat belts. Seat belts must
always be worn, even when the front seats are equipped with front airbags.

WARNING
Never rely solely on the airbag system for your protection.
• Even if an airbag is triggered, it only offers auxiliary protection.
• The airbag system offers the best level of protection, and reduces the risk of injury,
when seat belts are properly worn ⇒ Seat belts .
• Before every trip, each vehicle occupant must adopt the correct sitting position,
correctly fasten the seat belt belonging to their seat and keep it fastened properly
throughout the trip. This applies to all vehicle occupants and also in urban traffic.

WARNING
The risk of injury increases if there are any objects between the vehicle occupants and the
deployment area of the airbag when it is triggered. This will alter the deployment zone of
the airbag, or the objects will be flung against the body.
• Never hold any objects in your hand or on your lap while the vehicle is in motion.
• Never transport any objects on the front passenger seat. The objects could enter the
deployment zone of the airbag during sudden braking or driving manoeuvres and then
be flung dangerously through the vehicle interior if the airbag is activated.
• Vehicle occupants sitting on the front seats and rear outer seats must never carry any
people, pets or objects in the deployment zone between themselves and the airbags.
Ensure that children and passengers keep to this rule.

WARNING
The airbag system can only be triggered once. The system will have to be replaced if the
airbags have been triggered.
• Airbags that have been triggered, and any affected system parts, must immediately be
replaced with new parts that are approved by Volkswagen for the vehicle.
• Repairs and modifications to your vehicle should only be carried out by a qualified
workshop. Qualified workshops have the necessary tools, diagnostic equipment, repair
information and qualified personnel.
• Never use recycled airbag components or components that have been taken from endof-life vehicles in your vehicle.
• Never alter any components of the airbag system.

WARNING
Fine dust particles or steam may be released when the airbags are triggered. This is
normal and does not mean that there is a fire in the vehicle.
• The fine dust can cause irritation to the skin and eye membranes and cause breathing
difficulties, particularly for people suffering from asthma or people who have (had)
other respiratory problems. To help reduce breathing difficulties, get out of the vehicle
or open the windows or doors for more fresh air.
• If you come into contact with the dust, you should wash your hands and face with a
mild soap and water before eating.
• Do not let the dust get into your eyes or into open wounds.
• If dust has entered your eyes, rinse them with water.

WARNING
Cleaning agents that contain solvents cause the surface of the airbag modules to become
porous. In an accident that triggers the airbag, loose plastic parts can cause serious
injury.
• Never clean the dash panel or the airbag covers with cleansers that contain solvents.

Types of front passenger front airbag system
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Volkswagen offers two different front passenger front airbag systems:
A

B

Features of the front passenger
front airbag that can only be

Features of the front passenger
front airbag that can be switched

switched off by a qualified

off manually using the key-operated

workshop.

switch ⇒ Switching the front passenger
front airbag on and off .

– Indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster.

– Indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster.

– Front passenger front airbag in the dash

– PASSENGER AIR BAG

panel.

lamp in the upper section of the centre console.
– PASSENGER AIR BAG

indicator

indicator

lamp in the upper section of the centre console.
– Key-operated switch in the side of the dash
panel on the passenger side (only visible when
the door is open).
– Front passenger front airbag in the dash
panel.

Name: airbag system.

Name: airbag system with front
passenger front airbag
deactivation.

Indicator lamp

Fig. 43 In the upper section of the centre console: indicator lamp for disabled and enabled front
passenger front airbag.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Lit up

Location
Instrument cluster.

Upper section of

Possible cause

Action

Fault in airbag and belt Go to a qualified workshop to have
tensioner system.

the system checked immediately.

Fault in the airbag

Go to a qualified workshop to have

system.

the system checked immediately.

Front passenger front

Check whether the airbag should stay

airbag switched off.

switched off.

the centre console

⇒ Fig. 43 .

No solution – the indicator lamp will
Upper section of
the centre console

⇒ Fig. 43 .

disappear automatically approximately
Front passenger front

60 seconds after the ignition is

airbag switched on.

switched on, or after the front
passenger front airbag is switched on
using the key-operated switch.

Several warning and indicator lamps will light up briefly as a functional check when the ignition is
switched on. They will go out after a few seconds.
If the PASSENGER AIR BAG

indicator lamp in the upper section of the centre console

does not light up continuously when the front passenger front airbag is deactivated, or if it lights
up with the
occurred ⇒

indicator lamp in the instrument cluster, a fault in the airbag system may have
.

WARNING
If there is a fault in the airbag system, the airbag may not trigger correctly, may not trigger
at all or may trigger unexpectedly. This can cause severe or fatal injuries.
• The airbag system should be checked by a qualified workshop as soon as possible.
• Never fit a child seat to the front passenger seat or remove a child seat that is already
fitted. The front passenger front airbag may trigger during an accident in spite of the
fault.

NOTICE
Failure to observe the illuminated indicator lamps could lead to the vehicle being
damaged.

Description and function of the airbags
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The airbags can protect vehicle occupants during frontal and side collisions by reducing their
movement in the direction of the collision.
When an airbag is triggered, it is inflated by a gas generator. This causes the airbag covers to
break, and the airbags inflate forcefully to cover their deployment zones within milliseconds. Once a
vehicle occupant wearing a seat belt starts to sink into the inflated airbag, the gas inside the airbag
starts to escape to cushion the occupant and slow down their movement. This can reduce the risk
of severe and fatal injuries. A triggered airbag will not always prevent other injuries from occurring,
such as swelling, bruising, burning and grazing. The deployment of the airbag can also produce
frictional heat.
Airbags provide no protection for the arms or lower body. Exception: in vehicles with a knee airbag,
the knee area of the driver will be protected.
The most important factors for triggering the airbag are the type of accident, the angle of impact,
the vehicle speed and the type of object with which the vehicle collides. Therefore, visible damage
to the vehicle does not always mean that the airbag should have been triggered.
Whether or not the airbag triggers is determined by the vehicle deceleration rate caused by the
collision and registered by the electronic control unit. If this rate is below the reference value
programmed into the control unit, the airbags will not be triggered, even though the vehicle may be
badly damaged as a result of the collision. Vehicle damage, repair costs or even the lack of vehicle
damage in an accident do not necessarily give an indication of whether an airbag should inflate or
not. It is not possible to define a range of vehicle speeds and reference values, since the
circumstances will vary considerably between one collision and another. It is therefore impossible to
cover every possible kind and angle of impact that would trigger the airbags. Important factors in
the triggering of the airbag include the nature (hard or soft) of the object that the vehicle hits, the
angle of impact, and the vehicle speed.
Airbags only serve as a supplement to the three-point seat belt in some accident situations when
the vehicle braking is sufficient to trigger the airbags. Airbags can only be triggered once and only
in certain situations. The seat belts are always there to provide protection in situations in which the
airbags are not triggered or have already been triggered. For example, if the vehicle collides with a
further vehicle following the initial collision, or is hit by another vehicle.
The airbag system is part of the vehicle's overall passive safety concept. The airbag system can
only work effectively when the occupants are wearing their seat belts correctly and have assumed a

⇒ Sitting position .

proper sitting position

Components of the vehicle safety concept
The following vehicle safety equipment makes up the vehicle's safety concept to reduce the risk of
severe and fatal injuries. Some of this equipment may not be fitted in your particular vehicle. It may
not be available at all in some countries.
• Optimised seat belts for all seats.
• Belt tensioners for the driver and front passenger and also on the rear outer seats if in
conjunction with side airbags.
• Belt tension limiter for the driver, front passenger and, if applicable, for the rear outer seats.
• Belt height adjuster for the front seats.
• Warning lamp

and belt status display.

• Front airbags for driver and front passenger.
• Side airbags for the driver, front passenger and, if applicable, for the rear outer seats.
• Curtain airbags on the left and right.
• If applicable, knee airbag for the driver.
• Airbag indicator lamp

.

• Indicator lamp PASSENGER AIR BAG
• Indicator lamp PASSENGER AIR BAG

in the upper section of the centre console.
in the upper section of the centre console.

• Control units and sensors.
• Whiplash-optimised and height-adjustable head restraints.
• Adjustable steering column.
• If applicable, anchor points for child seats on the rear outer seats and on the front passenger
seat.
• If applicable, securing points for the top tether for child seats.

Situations when the front, knee, side and curtain airbags will not be
triggered:
• If the ignition is switched off during a collision.
• If the level of deceleration measured by the control unit is too low during a collision at the front
of the vehicle.
• During a minor side collision.
• During rear collisions.

• If the vehicle rolls over.
• If the speed in a collision is lower than the reference value specified in the control unit.

Front airbags

Fig. 44 Location and deployment zone of the driver front airbag.

Fig. 45 Location and deployment zone of the front passenger front airbag.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
In conjunction with the seat belts, the front airbag system gives the front occupants additional
protection for the head and chest in the event of a severe frontal collision. Always keep as far away
from the front airbag as possible ⇒ Sitting position . This allows the front airbags to inflate fully
when triggered, thus providing maximum protection.
The front airbag for the driver is located in the steering wheel ⇒ Fig. 44 and the front airbag for the
front passenger is located in the dash panel ⇒ Fig. 45 . The airbag locations are identified by the
text AIRBAG.
The areas inside the red lines are covered by the front airbags when deployed (deployment zone).
You must never leave or attach any objects in these areas ⇒

. Any factory-fitted accessories will

not be struck if the driver and front passenger front airbags are deployed.

DANGER
Once triggered, the airbag inflates at high speed.
• Always leave the deployment zones of the front airbags clear.
• Never attach any objects, such as drink or telephone holders, to the covers of the
airbag modules or anywhere in the airbag module deployment zone.
• No other people, animals or objects may be carried between the occupants of the front
seats and the airbag deployment zone. Ensure that children and passengers keep to
this rule.
• Do not attach any objects, e.g. mobile navigation devices, to the windscreen above the
front airbag on the front passenger side.
• Do not cover or stick anything on the steering wheel hub or the soft plastic surface of
the airbag unit in the dash panel on the front passenger side, and do not modify them
in any way.

WARNING
The front airbags are deployed in front of the steering wheel ⇒ Fig. 44 and dash panel

⇒ Fig. 45 .
• When driving, always hold the steering wheel with both hands on the outside of the
ring at the 9 o'clock and 3 o'clock positions.
• Adjust the driver seat so that there is at least 25 cm between your breastbone and the
hub of the steering wheel. Contact a qualified workshop if your physical build makes
this impracticable.
• Adjust the front passenger seat so that the distance between the passenger and the
dash panel is as large as possible.

Switching the front passenger front airbag on and off

Fig. 46 In the dash panel on the front passenger side or in the stowage compartment: key-operated
switch for switching the front passenger front airbag on and off.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The front passenger front airbag must be disabled if you fit a rear-facing child seat to the
front passenger seat.

Enabling the front passenger front airbag
• Switch off the ignition.
• Open the door on the front passenger side.
• Fold the key bit of the vehicle key all the way out ⇒ Vehicle key set .
• Insert the fully folded-out key bit of the vehicle key into the key-operated switch in the dash
panel ⇒ Fig. 46 to the second point of resistance. Around three quarters of the key bit should
be inserted in the key switch at this point ⇒

.

• Turn the vehicle key, without applying force, to the

position.

• Remove the vehicle key from the key-operated switch and fold away the key bit ⇒
• The indicator lamp PASSENGER AIR BAG

.

in the upper part of the centre console

lights up and goes out after approximately 60 seconds ⇒ Indicator lamp .
• Close the door on the front passenger side.
• Check that the PASSENGER AIR BAG

indicator lamp in the upper section of the

centre console does not light up when the ignition is switched on ⇒ Indicator lamp .

Disabling the front passenger front airbag
• Switch off the ignition.
• Open the door on the front passenger side.
• Fold the key bit of the vehicle key all the way out ⇒ Vehicle key set .
• Insert the fully folded-out key bit of the vehicle key into the key-operated switch in the dash
panel ⇒ Fig. 46 to the second point of resistance. Around three quarters of the key bit should
be inserted in the key switch at this point ⇒

.

• Turn the vehicle key, without applying force, to the

position.

• Remove the vehicle key from the key-operated switch and fold away the key bit ⇒

.

• Close the door on the front passenger side.
• When the ignition is switched on, the indicator lamp PASSENGER AIR BAG

will light

up steadily in the upper section of the centre console ⇒ Indicator lamp .

Ensuring that the front passenger front airbag has been deactivated
The only sure sign that the front passenger front airbag has been deactivated is when the
PASSENGER AIR BAG
the centre console (

indicator lamp is displayed continuously in the upper section of
lights up yellow steadily) ⇒ Indicator lamp .

If the indicator lamp PASSENGER AIR BAG

in the upper section of the centre console is

not lit up steadily, or if it lights up together with the indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster,

do not attach any child restraint system to the front passenger seat for safety reasons. The front
passenger front airbag may trigger during an accident.

WARNING
The front passenger front airbag should only be switched off in exceptional
circumstances.
• To prevent damage to the airbag system, only switch the front passenger front airbag
on and off when the ignition is switched off.
• It is the driver's responsibility to ensure that the key-operated switch is set to the
correct position.
• Only switch the front passenger front airbag off if, in exceptional circumstances, a
child seat has to be attached to the front passenger seat.
• Switch the front passenger front airbag back on again as soon as the child seat on the
front passenger seat is no longer being used.

NOTICE
If the key bit is not inserted far enough, the key switch could be damaged when the key is
turned.

NOTICE
Do not leave the vehicle key in the key switch, as this could result in damage to the interior
door trim, dash panel, key switch or vehicle key when the front passenger door is closed.

Side airbags

Fig. 47 On left-hand side of vehicle: deployment zones of side airbags.

Fig. 48 On the side of the front seat: location and deployment zone of the side airbag.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, side airbags may also be fitted for the front seats and
rear outer seats ⇒ Fig. 47 .
• The side airbags for the front seats are located in the outer seat backrest cushions of the driver
seat and front passenger seat ⇒ Fig. 48 .
• If fitted, the side airbags for the rear outer seats are each located between the door entry and
the individual rear seat backrests.
The side airbag locations are identified by the text AIRBAG.
The areas inside the red lines ⇒ Fig. 47 and ⇒ Fig. 48 are covered by the side airbags when
triggered (deployment zones). You must never leave or attach any objects in these areas ⇒

.

During a side collision, the side airbags will be deployed on the side of the vehicle which is
impacted, thus reducing the risk of injury to the areas of the occupants' bodies facing the impact.

WARNING
Once triggered, the airbag inflates at high speed.
• Always leave the deployment zones of the side airbags clear.
• Vehicle occupants sitting on the front seats and rear outer seats must never carry any
people, pets or objects in the deployment zone between themselves and the airbags.
Ensure that children and passengers keep to this rule.
• The built-in coat hooks should only be used for lightweight clothing. Do not leave any
heavy or sharp objects in the pockets.
• Do not fit any accessories to the doors.
• Do not fit seat covers or protective covers over the seats unless they have been
expressly approved for use in the vehicle. Otherwise the side airbag may not be able to
inflate once triggered.

WARNING
Incorrect use of the driver and front passenger seat could hinder the proper function of
the side airbag and cause serious injury.
• Never remove the front seats from the vehicle or alter any components of these seats.
• If too much pressure is applied to the backrest side bolster, the side airbags may not
be triggered correctly, may not trigger at all, or may trigger unexpectedly.
• Any damage to the original seat upholstery or around the seams of the side airbag
units must be repaired immediately by a qualified workshop.

Curtain airbags

Fig. 49 On the left-hand side of the vehicle: location and deployment zone of the curtain airbag.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
In the interior, a curtain airbag is fitted above the doors on both the driver and front passenger sides

⇒ Fig. 49 .
The curtain airbag locations are identified by the text AIRBAG.
The area in the red frame ⇒ Fig. 49 is covered by the curtain airbag when triggered (deployment
zone). For this reason, you must never leave or attach any items in this area ⇒

.

In a side collision the curtain airbag is triggered on the impact side of the vehicle.
In a side collision, the curtain airbags reduce the risk of injury to the areas of the body facing the
impact for vehicle occupants on the front seats and outer rear seats.

WARNING
Once triggered, the airbag inflates at high speed.
• Always leave the deployment zones of the curtain airbags clear.
• Never secure any items to the cover or in the deployment zone of the curtain airbag.
• Vehicle occupants sitting on the front seats and rear outer seats must never carry any
people, pets or objects in the deployment zone between themselves and the airbags.
Ensure that children and passengers keep to this rule.
• The built-in coat hooks should only be used for lightweight clothing. Do not leave any
heavy or sharp objects in the pockets.
• Do not fit any accessories to the doors.
• Do not install any sun blinds onto the side windows unless they have been expressly
approved for use in your vehicle.
• Only push the sun blinds over to the side windows if no items are attached to them
(e.g. pens or the remote control for a garage door).

Knee airbags

Fig. 50 On the driver side: location of the knee airbag

Fig. 51 On the driver side: deployment zone of the knee airbag.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The knee airbag on the driver side is located in the lower part of the dash panel.
The location of the knee airbag is indicated by the AIRBAG label ⇒ Fig. 50 .
The area in the red frame ⇒ Fig. 51 is covered by the knee airbag when triggered (deployment
zone). For this reason, you must never leave or attach any items in this area ⇒

.

WARNING
Once triggered, the airbag inflates at high speed.
• Do not use any objects, e.g. key rings, that could interfere with the deployment zone of
the knee airbag.
• Never secure any items on the cover or in the deployment zone of the knee airbag.
• The knee airbag is deployed in the area in front of the driver's knees. Adjust the driver
seat so there is at least a 10 cm gap between the knees and the location of the knee
airbag. Contact a qualified workshop if your physical build makes this impracticable.

Safe transport of children
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Types of child seat
⇒ Installing and using child seats
⇒ Securing systems
⇒ Securing child seats with ISOFIX
⇒ Securing child seats with top tether upper strap
⇒ Securing child seats with a seat belt
Using child seats can reduce the risk of injury to the child if there is an accident. Always use child
seats when driving with children.
Note the following:
• Child seats are classified into groups depending on the size, age and weight of child for which
they are designed.
• Various securing systems are used to secure child seats in the vehicle.
For safety reasons, child seats should always be fitted to the rear seats ⇒ Installing and using child
seats .
Volkswagen recommends child seats from the Volkswagen range of accessories. These child seats
have been developed and approved for use in Volkswagen vehicles.

WARNING
If children are not secured or are inadequately secured, they are at greater risk of serious
or even fatal injury. Please note the following:
• Children who are either under 12 years of age or less than 150 cm tall must not be
carried in the vehicle if they are not secured in a suitable child seat while the vehicle is
in motion. Regulations in some countries may differ, and must be complied with.
• Always secure children in the vehicle in a suitable child seat. The seat used must be
appropriate to the child's height, weight and age.
• Never fasten more than one child into one child seat.
• Under no circumstances should children or babies be held in a passenger's or drivers
lap while driving.
• Never leave a child unsupervised in a child seat.
• Never allow a child to be carried in a vehicle without being properly secured, and never
allow a child to stand up or to kneel on a seat, or to sit incorrectly while the car is in
motion. This is particularly important for children carried on the front passenger seat.
In an accident, children may sustain serious injuries to themselves and others.
• The child seat can only provide maximum protection if the seat belt is routed correctly
around it. Always ensure that the seat belt is routed as specified in the instructions
provided by the child seat manufacturer. If the seat belt is routed incorrectly it may
cause injuries even in a minor accident.
• After an accident, it is vital to replace any child seats that were in use during the
accident, as they could have sustained non-visible damage.

NOTICE
Observe the instructions and information relating to vehicles with N1 approval

⇒ Information about vehicles with N1 approval (light commercial vehicle) .

Types of child seat

Fig. 52 Some typical child seats.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Only use child seats that have been officially approved and are suitable for the child.

Standards for child seats
1)

Regulations ECE-R 44 or ECE-R 129 apply to child seats within the European Union. Both
regulations apply simultaneously. Child seats which have been tested in accordance with these
standards carry an orange ECE approval label. This ECE approval label may include the following
information on the child seat:
• Weight class
• Size class
• Approval category (universal, semi-universal, vehicle-specific or i-Size)
• Approval number
On child seats that are approved under regulation ECE-R 44, the eight-digit approval number on
the ECE approval label must begin with 03 or 04. This shows that the seat is admissible for use.
Older child seats with an approval number beginning with 01 or 02 are not admissible.

Child seat weight classes
Class

Child's weight

Group 0

up to 10 kg

Group 0+

up to 13 kg

Group 1

9 to 18 kg

Group 2

15 to 25 kg

Group 3

22 to 36 kg

• Weight class 0/0+: group 0/0+ or 0/1 rear-facing infant carriers ⇒ Fig. 52 are the best option
for the period from birth to about 18 months.
• Weight class 1: group 1 (up to about four years old) or group 1/2 (up to about seven years old)
with an integral belt system are best for children over the relevant weight limit.
• Weight classes 2/3: groups 2 and 3 include child seats with a backrest, and booster seats with
no backrest. Child seats with a backrest have integrated seat routing and side cushions, and so
provide better protection than booster seats with no backrest. Volkswagen therefore
recommends the use of child seats with a backrest. Group 2 child seats are for children up to
the age of about seven, group 3 child seats for those older than seven.
Not every child will fit in the child seat specified for their weight group. Likewise, not every seat will
fit in every vehicle. Therefore it is vital to check that the child fits properly in their child seat and that
the child seat can be securely fastened in the vehicle.

Child seat approval categories
Child seats can be classified as universal, semi-universal or vehicle-specific (all in accordance with
regulation ECE-R 44), or as i-Size (in accordance with regulation ECE-R 129).
• Universal: child seats with universal approval are approved for use in all vehicles. No type list
is required. ISOFIX child seats with universal approval must also be securing using a strap over
the top of the vehicle seat (top tether).
• Semi-universal: semi-universal approval requires other safety devices for attaching the seat
(that require additional testing) in addition to the standard requirements for universal approval.
Child seats with semi-universal approval come with a type list. The seats should only be used in
vehicles that are included on this list.
• Vehicle-specific: child seats with vehicle specific approval must have undergone dynamic
testing in each model of vehicle for which it is approved. These child seats also come with a
type list.
• i-Size: child seats classified as i-Size must conform to the installation and safety requirements
prescribed in regulation ECE-R 129. Contact the child seat manufacturer to find out which child
seats are approved for this vehicle in accordance with i-Size.
1)

Regulation ECE-R 129 has not yet been implemented by the state authorities in all countries.

Installing and using child seats

Fig. 53 A typical airbag label on the sun visor.

Fig. 54 A typical airbag label on the B-pillar.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Country-specific regulations
The standards and regulations governing the use of child seats and child seat securing
mechanisms differ from country to country. Not all countries allow you to transport children on the
front passenger seat. Legislation and legal requirements take precedence over the information
given in this owner's manual.

Information on fitting a child seat
Observe the following general information when fitting a child seat. This information is relevant
whatever child seat securing system is being used.
• Read and follow the instructions provided by the child seat manufacturer ⇒

.

• Whenever possible, fit all child seats to the rear seat behind the front passenger seat so that
children can exit the vehicle on the kerb side.
• Move the seat belt height adjuster to the highest position.

• Deactivate the front passenger front airbag if fitting a rear-facing child seat on the front
passenger seat.
• When fitting on the front passenger seat, push the front passenger seat back fully and adjust
the seat to the highest position. Adjust the backrest to an upright position ⇒ Sitting position .
• When using child seats from groups 0 or 1 on the rear bench seat, push the rear bench seat
backwards as far as possible ⇒ Sitting position .
• When using child seats from groups 2 or 3 on the rear bench seat, push the rear bench seat
into a central position ⇒ Sitting position .
• Always ensure that there is enough space around the child seat. If necessary, adjust the
position of the seat in front. When doing so, ensure that the driver or front passenger can still
maintain a correct sitting position ⇒ Sitting position .
• The backrest of the child seat must lay as flat as possible against the vehicle seat backrest.
Adjust the seat backrest angle if necessary so that the child seat lies flush against the backrest.
If the child seat, once fitted, touches the vehicle head restraint so that it cannot lie flat against
the backrest, push the vehicle head restraint up as far as it will go or remove it and stow it away
safely in the vehicle ⇒ Sitting position .

Airbag sticker
The vehicle may be provided with stickers giving key information about the front passenger front
airbag. The information on these stickers may vary from country to country. The stickers may be
found:
• On the driver and/or front passenger sun visor ⇒ Fig. 53 .
• On the B-pillar on the passenger side ⇒ Fig. 54 .
It is essential to note the warning information shown on these stickers before installing a rear-facing
child seat ⇒

.

Risks involved in carrying children on the front passenger seat
If you are using a rear-facing child seat, the front passenger front airbag can cause critical or
potentially fatal injuries when it inflates ⇒

.

Rear-facing child seat may only be used on the front passenger seat if the front passenger front
airbag has been deactivated. A deactivated front passenger front airbag is indicated by means of
the permanently lit PASSENGER AIR BAG

indicator lamp in the driver's field of vision.

Switching off the front passenger front airbag ⇒ Airbag system , PASSENGER AIR BAG
indicator lamp ⇒ Indicator lamp .
If using a front-facing child seat, do not deactivate the front passenger front airbag. When fitting
the child seat ensure ensure that it is as far away as possible from the front passenger front airbag.
The front passenger front airbag can cause severe injuries when it inflates ⇒

.

Some child seats are not suitable for use on the front passenger seat. The child seat must be
specially authorised by the manufacturer for use on the front passenger seat in vehicles with front
and side airbags. Volkswagen dealerships keep an up-to-date list of authorised child seats.

DANGER
If you use a rear-facing child seat on the front passenger seat, the child in it is at
increased risk of sustaining critical or fatal injuries in the event of an accident.
• Deactivate the front passenger front airbag. If the front passenger front airbag cannot
be deactivated no rear-facing child seat may be used.
• Move the front passenger seat as far back and as high as possible in order to create
the largest possible distance between the child seat and the front passenger front
airbag.
• Move the backrest to the upright position.
• Move the seat belt height adjuster to the highest position.
• Use only child seats that have been approved by the child seat manufacturer for use on
a front passenger seat with front and side airbags.

WARNING
Child seats present a risk of injury if incorrectly installed.
• Always read and follow the installation instructions and warning information provided
by the child seat manufacturer.

WARNING
Using a front-facing child seat on the front passenger seat presents a risk of injury.
• Move the front passenger seat as far back and as high as it can be set, to create the
largest possible distance between the child seat and the front passenger front airbag.
• Move the backrest to the upright position.
• Set the belt height adjuster of the seat belt to the highest position.
• Use only child seats that have been approved by the child seat manufacturer for use on
a front passenger seat with front and side airbags.

WARNING
To help avoid injuries caused by inflation of a head airbag or side airbag:
• Ensure that no children are seated within the airbag deployment zone ⇒ Airbag
system .
• Do not place any objects in the side airbag deployment zones.

Securing systems
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Different countries use different securing systems for safely fitting child seats in the vehicle.

Key terms for securing systems
• ISOFIX: ISOFIX is a standardised securing system for fitting child seats in the vehicle quickly
and safely. The ISOFIX attachment system creates a rigid connection between the child seat
and the car body.
Compatible child seats have two rigid attachment arms that click into ISOFIX attachment points at
the bottom of the backrest (on the outer rear seats). The ISOFIX securing system as described
here is specific to Europe ⇒ Securing child seats with ISOFIX . An upper strap (top tether) and/or
support foot may sometimes have to be used in addition to the ISOFIX anchor points described
above.
• Three-point automatic seat belt. It is better to secure child seats using the ISOFIX system, if
available, rather than with a three-point automatic seat belt ⇒ Securing child seats with a seat
belt .
Additional securing points:
• Top tether: the strap at the top of the child seat is routed over the vehicle seat backrest and
hooked to an anchor ring on the back of the rear seats ⇒ Securing child seats with top tether
upper strap . Top tether anchor points are marked with an anchor symbol.
• Support foot: some child seats are propped up with a support foot resting on the floor of the
vehicle. This support foot helps prevent the child seat tipping forward in a crash. Child seats
with a support foot can be used only on the front passenger seat and the outer rear seats ⇒

Recommended child seat securing systems
Volkswagen recommends that child seats are secured as follows:
• Infant carrier or rear-facing child seat: ISOFIX and support foot.
• Front-facing child seat: ISOFIX and top tether and possibly support foot also.

WARNING
Incorrect use of the support foot can cause severe or fatal injuries.
• Ensure that the support foot is always correctly and safely installed.

Securing child seats with ISOFIX

Fig. 55 On vehicle seat: markings identifying the ISOFIX anchoring points for child seats.

.

Fig. 56 Fitting a typical ISOFIX child seat with the attachment arms.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Quick guide to ISOFIX and i-Size installation
The table below shows the options for securing ISOFIX or i-Size child seats to ISOFIX anchor
points at the various possible seats in the vehicle.

Group

Group 0: up to 10
kg

Group 0+: up to
13 kg

Group 1: 9 to 18
kg

Group 2: 15 to 25
kg
Group 3: 22 to 36
kg
i-Size child
restraint system

Size class

Front
passenger
seat

Outer rear
seats

Centre rear
seat

E

X

IL-SU

X

E

X

D

X

C

X

X

D

X

X

C

X

B

X

B1

X

X

A

X

X

–

X

IL-SU

X

–

X

IL-SU

X

–

X

i-U

X

X
IL-SU

X

X
IL-SU, IUF

X

• Size class: the size class shown corresponds to the permissible weight range of the child using
the seat. The size class is indicated on the ECE test certificate for child seats with universal or
semi-universal approval. A size class indication is affixed to the child seat.
• X: seat not suitable for securing an ISOFIX or i-Size child seat in this group.
• IL-SU: seat suitable for installing an ISOFIX child seat with "semi-universal" approval. Refer to
the vehicle list supplied by the child seat manufacturer.
• IUF: seat suitable for installing an ISOFIX child seat with "universal" approval.
• i-U: seat suitable for installing a front-facing or rear-facing i-Size child seat with "universal"
approval.
• i-UF: seat suitable for installing a front-facing i-Size child seat with "universal" approval.

Installing child seats with ISOFIX ISOFIX/i-Size
The location of the ISOFIX anchor points is shown by a symbol ⇒ Fig. 55 .
• Observe the instructions ⇒ Installing and using child seats .
• Pull off any protective caps that may be fitted on the ISOFIX anchoring points.
• Push the attachment arms on the child seat into the ISOFIX anchor points ⇒ Fig. 55 as shown
by the arrows. The child seat must click and audibly securely into place.
• Pull on both sides of the child seat to check whether the seat has clicked properly into place.
• If the child seat is fitted with a support foot, the foot must sit firmly on the floor of the vehicle.

Securing child seats with top tether upper strap

Fig. 57 On the back of the rear bench seat: anchor rings for the top tether.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
ISOFIX child seats with universal approval must be secured with an upper strap (top tether) in
addition to the ISOFIX anchor points.
Only secure the strap to the top tether anchor rings. Retaining rings for use with the top tether are
marked by a symbol and sometimes also with TOP TETHER.
• Observe the instructions ⇒ Installing and using child seats .
• Remove the net partition if necessary ⇒ Net partition .
• Push the head restraint on the vehicle seat all the way down or remove it.
• Position the child seat in the centre of the seat cushion.
• Push the attachment arms on the child seat into the ISOFIX anchor points ⇒ Securing child
seats with ISOFIX as shown by the arrows. The child seat must click and audibly securely into
place.
• Adjust the rear seat backrest of the vehicle seat to the backrest of the child seat.
• Remove the luggage compartment cover, if necessary ⇒ Luggage compartment cover .
• Guide the upper strap of the child seat backwards into the luggage compartment and hook it
into the corresponding top tether anchor ring ⇒ Fig. 57 .
• Tighten the top tether so that the top of the child seat rests against the rear seat backrest.

WARNING
Only secure the strap to the top tether anchor rings. Failure to do this could lead to severe
injuries.
• Each anchor ring can hold only one child seat restraining strap.
• Never fasten the strap on a child seat to any other fastening rings.

Securing child seats with a seat belt
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If you want to fit a child seat from the "universal" (u) approval category in your vehicle, you must
first ensure that it is approved for the seat position in question. Important information is given on the
orange ECE approval label on the child seat. Installation options are shown in the table below.

Group

Child's
weight

Front passenger seat

Group 0

up to 10 kg

x

u

u

up to 13 kg

x

u

u

9 to 18 kg

x

u

u

9 to 18 kg

u

x

u

Group 2

15 to 25 kg

u

x

u

Group 3

22 to 36 kg

u

x

u

Group 0+
Rear facing

Seats on
the rear
Front
Front
bench
passenger
passenger
seat
front airbag is front airbag is
activated.
deactivated.

Group
Forward

1

facing

Securing a child seat using the seat belt
• Observe the instructions ⇒ Installing and using child seats .
• The seat belt height adjuster must be at the highest setting.
• Fasten the seat belt or guide it through the child seat as described in the child seat
manufacturer's instructions.
• Ensure that the seat belt is not twisted.
• Insert the latch plate into the buckle for the appropriate seat and push it down until it locks
securely with a click.

In an emergency

Making you and your vehicle safe
Observe any legislation concerning the safety of a broken-down vehicle. For example, many
countries stipulate that you have to switch on the hazard warning lights and wear a high-visibility
vest ⇒ Equipment for an emergency .

Checklist
To ensure your own safety and that of your passengers, observe the following actions in the
specified order ⇒

:

Stop the vehicle at a safe distance away from moving traffic and on a suitable surface .
Switch on the hazard warning lights using the button Centre console.
Switch on the electronic parking brake Electronic parking brake.
Move the gear lever to neutral position or move the selector lever to P, Manual gearbox:
selecting a gear and DSG® dual clutch gearbox.
Stop the engine and remove the key from the ignition Starting and stopping the engine.
Ensure that all occupants exit the vehicle and go straight to a safe place away from
moving traffic, e.g. behind the safety barrier. Heed the country-specific regulations
concerning high-visibility waistcoats.
Take all vehicle keys with you when you leave the vehicle.
Place the warning triangle in position to draw the attention of other road users to your
vehicle.
Allow the engine to cool down and seek expert assistance.
When the hazard warning lights are switched on, for example if you are being towed, you can still
indicate a change in direction or lane change by operating the turn signal. The warning lights will be
interrupted temporarily.

Examples of when to switch on the hazard warning lights:
• When traffic ahead suddenly starts moving more slowly or you reach the tail end of a traffic jam,
to will warn vehicles behind you.
• When there is an emergency.
• When the vehicle breaks down.
• When tow-starting or towing.
Always follow local regulations for the use of the hazard warning lights.
If the hazard warning lights are not working, you must use an alternative method of drawing
attention to the broken-down vehicle. This method must comply with traffic legislation.

WARNING
Any broken-down vehicle poses a high accident risk for the vehicle occupants and for
other road users.
• Stop the vehicle as soon as possible and when safe to do so.
• Park the vehicle at a safe distance from moving traffic.
• Switch on the hazard warning lights.
• Never leave other persons alone in the vehicle, particularly children or people requiring
assistance. This applies in particular when the doors are locked. People locked in the
vehicle may be subjected to very high or very low temperatures.

WARNING
Ignoring any of the items on this important safety checklist can lead to accidents and
severe injuries.
• Always follow the instructions in the checklist and observe the general safety
procedures.

WARNING
The components of the exhaust system become very hot. This can cause fires and serious
injuries.
• Park the vehicle so that no part of the exhaust system can come into contact with any
inflammable material underneath the vehicle, e.g. dry grass, fuel.

NOTICE
When pushing the vehicle by hand, do not press on the rear lights, the rear spoiler or large
panels. This could damage the vehicle and loosen the spoiler.

The 12-volt vehicle battery will discharge if the hazard warning lights are left on over a long
period of time – even when the ignition is switched off.
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the brake lights flash rapidly if you brake sharply or
initiate full braking at a speed of more than 80 km/h (50 mph). This is a particularly effective way of
attracting the attention of vehicles behind you. If you then continue to brake, the hazard warning
lights will be switched on automatically at speeds under approximately 10 km/h (6 mph). Once the
vehicle starts to accelerate, the hazard warning lights will switch off again.

Equipment for an emergency

Fig. 58 In the boot lid: holder for the warning triangle.

First aid kit
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the first aid kit may be located in a stowage compartment or a
holder in the luggage compartment, under the luggage compartment floor or in the vehicle interior.
Depending on the equipment in the vehicle, the first aid kit may be located in various locations in
the luggage compartment:
• In a bag on the left or right in the stowage areas of the luggage compartment ⇒ Stowage
areas .
• In a foam rubber holder under the luggage compartment floor ⇒ Transporting .
The first aid kit must comply with legal requirements. Please observe the use-by date of the
contents.
After use, replace the content if necessary and stow the first aid kit safely again.

Warning triangle
Depending on the equipment, the warning triangle may be located in the boot lid. When the boot lid
is open, turn the lock for the bracket ⇒ Fig. 58 by 90° anticlockwise in the direction of the arrow,
open the bracket and remove the warning triangle.
The warning triangle must comply with legal requirements.
Return the warning triangle to its holder after use and lock it into place.

High-visibility waistcoat
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the high-visibility waistcoat may be located in a stowage
compartment in the front door trim or in the stowage compartment on the front passenger side

⇒ Driver door , ⇒ Front passenger side .
The high-visibility waistcoat triangle must comply with legal requirements.

Fire extinguisher
Depending on the vehicle equipment, a fire extinguisher may be located in a holder in the footwell
under the front passenger seat.
The fire extinguisher must comply with legal regulations, must always be ready for use and must be
checked regularly (see inspection seal on the fire extinguisher).

WARNING
In the event of a sudden driving or braking manoeuvre or accident, loose objects could be
flung though the vehicle and cause severe injuries.
• Always secure the first aid kit, warning triangle and fire extinguisher safely in the
holders in the vehicle.
• Stow the high-visibility waistcoat in the stowage compartments so that it is easily
accessible.

Behaviour after a collision with active bonnet

Fig. 59 Triggered active bonnet.

In the event of a collision at the front of the vehicle, the active bonnet will be triggered by sensors in
the front bumper in the speed range from around 25 to 55 km/h (15 to 34 mph). As a result, the
bonnet is lifted by a few centimetres in front of the windscreen in order to create an additional
crumple zone above the engine, e.g. in the head area of a pedestrian who has been hit.
The active bonnet system can trigger properly only if the bonnet has not previously been deformed
by external influences.
In some cases, the system may trigger even though the collision has not been with a pedestrian.
The system can be triggered in the following situations:
• Frontal collision with a marker post, street lantern, pillar etc.
• Frontal collision with an animal.
• Driving into a mound of snow.
• Bottoming of the vehicle when driving on very poor roads.
When the active bonnet has been triggered, the bonnet is moved up by a few centimetres in front of
the windscreen ⇒ Fig. 59 . Special hinges lock the bonnet in open position ⇒ Fig. 59 (close-up).
The warning lamp

also remains lit in the instrument cluster until the system has been repaired.

The following applies if the active bonnet has been triggered:
• It is necessary to go directly to a qualified workshop.
• The system must be repaired by the qualified workshop.
• It is permitted to continue driving only when the vehicle is roadworthy.
• It is not permitted to drive faster than up to 80 km/h (50 mph).
• The seat position must be adjusted if necessary. In spite of the active bonnet having triggered,
there must always still be unrestricted visibility through the windscreen ⇒ Sitting position .
If the active bonnet has been triggered, the warning lamp

in the instrument cluster lights up.

Warning lamp
Display Possible cause
Active bonnet has been triggered.

Active bonnet: system fault.

Action
Go to a qualified workshop immediately and
have the system repaired.
Go to a qualified workshop to have the
system checked immediately.

With some vehicle equipment levels, a symbol which indicates that the active bonnet has been
triggered may be shown in the instrument cluster instead of a warning lamp.

Repairing the triggered active bonnet
A triggered active bonnet must be repaired only by a qualified workshop⇒
recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

. Volkswagen

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in the active bonnet pedestrian protection system cannot
overcome the laws of physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Never let
the extra convenience afforded by the active bonnet pedestrian protection system tempt
you into taking any safety risks.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Do not drive faster than up to 80 km/h (50 mph) when the active bonnet has been
triggered.

WARNING
Failure to observe illuminated warning lamps and text messages can lead to your vehicle
breaking down in traffic, and can cause accident and serious injury.
• Never ignore any illuminated warning lamps or text messages.
• Stop the vehicle as soon as it is possible and safe to do so.

WARNING
Incorrect repairs and modifications can cause malfunctions and damage to the vehicle
and impair the effectiveness of the driver assist systems. This can result in accidents and
severe injuries.
• Repairs and modifications to your vehicle should only be carried out by a qualified
workshop.

WARNING
Incorrect closing of the triggered active bonnet can cause accidents and serious injuries,
particularly to the hands.
• A triggered active bonnet must be repaired only by a qualified workshop. Never
attempt to close the bonnet yourself.

NOTICE
Incorrect closing of the triggered active bonnet can damage the vehicle.
• Do not press the active bonnet closed under any circumstances, e.g. by pressing down
on the bonnet with your hand. The bonnet and its hinges could be damaged as a result.

The symbol can differ depending on the version of the instrument cluster.

Information call, breakdown call and Emergency Call Service

Fig. 60 In the roof console: control for voice services.

Depending on the equipment in the vehicle, a control may be installed in the roof console. Pressing
the buttons

,

and

⇒ Fig. 60 enables you to access the following voice services:

information call, breakdown call and Emergency Call Service.
The required connection is established by a factory-fitted control unit. A connection to a telephone
call centre will be established when you trigger one of the voice services.

Indicator lamp
The control is equipped with an indicator lamp ⇒ Fig. 60 (arrow). This displays the following
statuses:
• Off: all voice services are disabled.
• Flashing red for around 20 seconds after the ignition is switched on: at least one voice service
is disabled.
• Lit up red: system error. Voice service availability is restricted. Volkswagen recommends
consulting a specialist workshop.

• Lit up green: voice services are available. System is OK.
• Flashing green: active connection to a voice service.

Information call
• The information call enables you to call the Volkswagen AG hotline.
• The information call function is available only in some sales regions.
• The telephone call centre communicates in the language registered for the vehicle in Car-Net.

Breakdown call
• The breakdown call allows you to seek professional assistance should your vehicle break down.
• Some vehicle data, e.g. the current location, is transmitted parallel to the voice call.
• The telephone call centre communicates in the language registered for the vehicle in Car-Net.

Emergency Call Service
• If an emergency call is placed manually or automatically after an accident where an airbag was
triggered, data relevant for the emergency call, e.g. the current vehicle location, will be
transmitted automatically ⇒ Customer information .
• The telephone call centre communicates in the language set up in the vehicle's Infotainment
system. English is used if this language is not available at the location of the emergency.

Back-up 112 emergency call service
In some cases, the Emergency call service may be restricted or unavailable so the general
emergency call number 112 is used to conduct an emergency call. In this case, only a voice-based
connection is established. No data will be transmitted, e.g. regarding the vehicle or its location.
The following circumstances may restrict access to the Emergency call service and lead to the call
being forwarded to the 112 emergency number:
• Your current emergency call location is in an area with no or insufficient mobile communications
and GPS reception. This can also include tunnels, streets with tall buildings, garages,
underpasses, mountains and valleys.
• You are in an area with sufficient mobile communications and GPS reception but the
telecommunications provider's mobile network is not available.
• The Emergency call service is prohibited by law in some countries.
• There is no valid licence for using the Emergency call service.
• The components in the vehicle required for the Emergency call service are damaged or do not
have a sufficient power supply.
Please also observe the other information on Volkswagen Car-Net ⇒ Mobile online services .

Opening and closing
Vehicle key set
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Vehicle key
⇒ Changing the button cell
⇒ Troubleshooting

DANGER
Swallowing batteries with a diameter of 20 mm, or other button cells, can result in severe
or even fatal injuries within a very short period of time.
• Always keep the vehicle key, key ring with batteries, spare batteries, round cells and
other batteries that are larger than 20 mm out of the reach of children.
• Call for medical help immediately you suspect that someone has swallowed a battery.

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the vehicle key can lead to accidents or injuries.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle. Children or
unauthorised persons could lock the doors and the boot lid, start the engine or switch
on the ignition and operate electrical equipment such as the electric windows.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle. They could
become trapped in the vehicle in an emergency and may not be able to get themselves
to safety. For example, locked vehicles may be subjected to very high or very low
temperatures depending on the season. This can cause serious injuries and illness or
fatalities, especially among small children.
• Never switch off the ignition while the vehicle is in motion. The steering column lock or
steering lock mechanism may be activated and you will no longer be able to steer the
vehicle.

Vehicle key

Fig. 61 Vehicle key.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 61 :
Central locking button: unlock the vehicle.
Unlock only the boot lid.
Central locking button: lock the vehicle.
Fold the key bit in and out.
Indicator lamp.

Indicator lamp
The indicator lamp in the vehicle key flashes when you press a button.

NOTICE
Every electric vehicle key contains electronic components. Protect the key from damage,
moisture and excessive vibration.

Press the buttons on the key only if the corresponding function is actually needed. Pressing
a button when the function is not required could lead to the vehicle being unlocked unintentionally
or the alarm going off. This also applies even when you are not within the effective range.

Changing the button cell

Fig. 62 Vehicle key: replacing the button cell.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 62 :
Remove the cover.
Remove the button cell.
Volkswagen recommends having the button cell changed at a Volkswagen dealership or by a
qualified workshop ⇒

.

• Fold out the key bit.
• Lever off the cover ⇒ Fig. 62① ⇒

.

• Lever the button cell out of the battery compartment ⇒ Fig. 62② .
• Press the new button cell into the battery compartment ⇒ Fig. 62② ⇒

.

• Press the cover onto the housing ⇒ Fig. 62① .

NOTICE
• The vehicle key can be damaged if the battery is not changed properly.
• Unsuitable batteries can damage the vehicle key. Replace discharged batteries only
with new batteries of the same voltage rating, size and specification.
• Ensure that the battery is fitted the right way round.

Dispose of discharged batteries in accordance with regulations governing the protection of
the environment.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Synchronising the vehicle key
If the vehicle cannot be locked or unlocked with the vehicle key, synchronise the vehicle key or
replace the button cell (battery) ⇒ Changing the button cell .
• Fold out the key bit.
• Remove the cap on the driver door handle ⇒ Unlocking or locking the driver door manually .
• Stand next to the vehicle.
• Press the

button on the vehicle key.

• Unlock the vehicle using the key bit.
• Fit the cap ⇒ Doors .
The synchronisation process is complete.

Indicator lamp does not flash
If the indicator lamp in the vehicle key does not flash, the button cell (battery) in the vehicle key
needs to be changed ⇒ Changing the button cell .

Replacement key
You will need to quote the vehicle identification number when ordering a vehicle key.
Several vehicle keys can be authorised for one vehicle.
You can obtain new vehicle keys at a Volkswagen dealership or qualified workshop.

The function of the vehicle key can be affected temporarily if there is more than one
transmitter in the direct vicinity working on the same frequency (e.g. a two-way radio or mobile
telephone).
Obstacles between the vehicle key and the vehicle, bad weather conditions and a weak
button cell reduce the operating range.
If the buttons on the vehicle key ⇒ Fig. 61 or one of the central locking buttons ⇒ Central
locking system are pressed repeatedly within a short period of time, the central locking system will
switch off briefly to prevent overloading. The vehicle will then be unlocked. Lock the vehicle if
necessary.

Central and manual locking
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Indicator lamp
⇒ Central locking system
⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle from the outside
⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle from the inside
⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle with
⇒ SAFELOCK
⇒ Anti-theft alarm
⇒ Interior monitoring system and anti-tow alarm
⇒ Locking the vehicle after the airbag has been triggered
⇒ Troubleshooting
The central locking system locks all doors and the boot lid of the vehicle. The vehicle cannot be
locked if the driver door is open.
The vehicle can only be locked if the ignition has been switched off or the driver has switched off
the engine before leaving the vehicle.

Automatic locking (anti-theft protection)
The vehicle will lock itself again automatically after around 45 seconds if one of the following
conditions applies:
• The vehicle was unlocked but not opened.
• The ignition was not switched on.
• The boot lid was not opened.
• The vehicle has been unlocked using the lock cylinder.
• The vehicle was locked with the central locking button in the vehicle interior.

WARNING
Improper use of the central locking system could lead to serious injury.
• The central locking system locks all doors. Locking the vehicle from the inside can
prevent accidental opening of the doors and unauthorised persons from entering the
vehicle. However, locked doors can delay assistance to passengers inside the vehicle
in the event of an accident or emergency.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle. All doors can
be locked from the inside using the central locking button. This may mean that people
lock themselves in the vehicle. People locked in the vehicle may be subjected to very
high or very low temperatures.
• Temperatures inside a locked vehicle may reach extremes of heat or cold, according to
season. This can cause serious injuries and illness or fatalities, especially to small
children.
• Never leave anyone inside a locked vehicle. People in the vehicle could become
trapped in an emergency and may not be able to get themselves to safety.
• Doors and the boot lid should therefore be opened or closed only when you are sure
that nobody is in their path.

Indicator lamp
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The central locking indicator lamp is located in the driver door ⇒ Driver door .
Vehicle locked: red LED flashes at short intervals for approximately two seconds, and then more
slowly. The indicator lamp does not flash if the vehicle was locked with the central locking button in
the driver door ⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle from the inside .

Central locking system
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The central locking system enables you to lock or unlock all the doors, the boot lid and the tank flap
from one point.
Settings for the central locking system can be adjusted in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and
display in the Infotainment system .

Automatic locking (Auto Lock)
The vehicle may lock itself automatically at speeds of approximately 15 km/h (9 mph) and above

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system . The indicator lamp
button will light up yellow when the vehicle is locked.

in the central locking

Automatic unlocking (Auto Unlock)
All doors and the boot lid are automatically unlocked if one of the following conditions applies:
• The vehicle is at a standstill and the vehicle key has been removed.
•

m/k/a995MK In vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox: the selector lever is in
position P and the ignition has been switched off.

• OR: the vehicle is stationary and the

button has been pressed.

• OR: the door release lever has been operated.
• OR: In an accident where the airbags have been triggered ⇒ Locking the vehicle after the
airbag has been triggered .
Automatic unlocking provides access to the vehicle if assistance is required.

Even if single door unlocking has already taken place, the entire vehicle will be unlocked
when the sensors are touched twice. The entire vehicle must be locked.

Locking and unlocking the vehicle from the outside

Fig. 63 Vehicle key: central locking system.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Unlock: press the

button. Press and hold for convenience opening.

• Lock: press the

button. Press and hold for convenience closing.

• Vehicles with the keyless access locking and starting system: touch the sensors ⇒ Locking and
unlocking the vehicle with keyless access . Individual doors or the entire vehicle are unlocked.
• Press the

button ⇒ Boot lid . The boot lid is released.

Vehicles with SAFELOCK: press the

⇒ SAFELOCK . Press the

button once to lock the vehicle using SAFELOCK

button twice to lock the vehicle without SAFELOCK.

Please note: depending on the settings made for the central locking in the Infotainment system

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system , it may be the case that all of the doors and the
boot lid are unlocked only once the

button has been pressed twice.

• Locking: all turn signals will flash once as confirmation.
• Unlocking: all turn signals will flash twice as confirmation.

Convenience opening and closing
• See Windows – Functions ⇒ Windows .
Depending on the mirror function selected in the Infotainment system, the exterior mirrors
fold out when the vehicle is unlocked using the

button and surround lighting is switched on.

Locking and unlocking the vehicle from the inside

Fig. 64 In the driver door: central locking button.

Fig. 65 In the driver door: release for the boot lid.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key for ⇒ Fig. 64 and ⇒ Fig. 65 :
Unlocks the vehicle.
Locks the vehicle.
Unlock the boot lid.
If the

button in the driver door is pressed, only the boot lid opens. All doors remain

locked.
The central locking button will function only if all doors are closed.
If the vehicle has been locked with the vehicle key, the central locking buttons do not work.
Please note the following if the central locking button was used to lock the vehicle from inside:
• The indicator lamp

in the button lights up yellow when all doors are closed and locked.

• The anti-theft alarm will not be activated.
• It is not possible to open the doors and the boot lid from the outside.
The doors can be opened from the inside by pulling the door release handle. The indicator lamp
in the button goes out. The unopened doors and boot lid remain locked and cannot be opened from
the outside.
If the driver door is open, it will not be locked.
In vehicles with SAFELOCK: the SAFELOCK mechanism is not activated ⇒ SAFELOCK .
The vehicle automatically unlocks all doors and the boot lid if one of the following conditions applies

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system :
• The

button was pressed.

• The vehicle is at a standstill and the vehicle key has been removed.
• A door was opened. Depending on the central locking settings in the Infotainment system

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

Locking and unlocking the vehicle with keyless access

Fig. 66 Keyless Access locking and starting system: operating range. Sensor surfaces of the
central locking system.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access enables the vehicle to be locked and
unlocked without active use of the key. For this purpose, a valid vehicle key must be within the
vehicle's range ⇒ Fig. 66

. The vehicle or boot lid is unlocked or locked by touching the sensor

surfaces on the front door handles or pressing the button in the boot lid ⇒ Boot lid ⇒

.

General notes
• Unlocking the vehicle using the sensor on the driver or front passenger door or the button on
the boot lid.
• Lock the vehicle by means of the sensor surface on the driver or front passenger door.
• Keyless comfort start function: press the starter button to start the engine ⇒ Starting and
stopping the engine . A valid vehicle key must be located in the vehicle interior.

• Easy Open: open the boot lid by moving a foot underneath the rear bumper ⇒ Boot lid .
• Easy Close: automatically closes the boot lid.
• Lock the vehicle via the sensor.
The vehicle unlocking procedure is confirmed by all the turn signals flashing twice and the locking
procedure by the turn signals flashing once.
If the vehicle is locked and then the doors and boot lid are closed, and the most recently used
vehicle key is located inside the vehicle, it will not immediately lock properly. All turn signals flash
four times.

Unlocking and opening the doors
• Touch the sensor surface ⇒ Fig. 66

on the inside of the driver or front passenger door

handle.
• Open the door.

Closing and locking the doors
• Switch off the ignition.
• Close the driver or front passenger door.
• Touch the sensor ⇒ Fig. 66

on the outside of the driver or front passenger door handle

once.

On vehicles with SAFELOCK: closing and locking doors
• Switch off the ignition.
• Close the driver and front passenger door.
• Locking with SAFELOCK: touch the sensor surface on the outside of the driver or front
passenger door handle once.
• Locking without SAFELOCK: touch the sensor surface on the outside of the driver or front
passenger door handle twice.

Locking and unlocking the boot lid
If the vehicle is locked and a valid vehicle key is located within the operating range ⇒ Fig. 66
of the boot lid, the boot lid automatically unlocks when you open it with the handle button.
The boot lid is locked automatically after it is closed. If the vehicle is completely unlocked, the boot
lid will not lock automatically when closed.

Temporarily deactivating Keyless Access
• Lock the vehicle with the

button on the vehicle key.

• Also lock the vehicle using the door sensor within five seconds.
• The keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access is temporarily deactivated.
The vehicle can be unlocked only using the vehicle key.
Keyless Access is reactivated the next time the vehicle is unlocked.

Convenience functions
To use convenience closing for all of the electric windows and the glass roof, hold your finger on
the sensor on the outside of the driver or front passenger door handle for a few seconds until the
windows or the glass roof have closed.
The sensors' functions can be adjusted in the Vehicle settings menu in the Infotainment system

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

NOTICE
Please note that the sensor surfaces in the door handles could be activated by a powerful
jet of water or steam if a valid vehicle key is in the operating range at the same time. If at
least one window is open and sensor surface in a door handle is continuously activated,
all windows will close. It is possible that all windows will open if the jet of water or steam is
moved away from a door handle sensor surface briefly and then moved back onto it

⇒ Central locking system .

It may not be possible to lock or unlock the vehicle using keyless access if the 12-volt vehicle
battery or button cell in the vehicle key is weak or discharged. The vehicle can be locked or
unlocked manually ⇒ Unlocking or locking the driver door manually .
The unlock function is deactivated for a few seconds so that you can check that the vehicle
has been locked properly.
If the message Keyless fault appears on the instrument cluster display, there may be a
malfunction in the Keyless Access system. Go to a qualified workshop.

Depending on the mirror function set in the Infotainment system, the exterior mirrors fold out
when the vehicle is unlocked using the sensor on the door handle of the driver of passenger door
and surround lighting is switched on.
If there is no valid vehicle key in the vehicle or if it is not detected, a corresponding display
will be shown on the instrument cluster display. This may occur if the vehicle key is obstructed by
another radio signal or is covered by another item, e.g. a mobile telephone accessory or an
aluminium suitcase ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine .
The sensors may have limited functionality if they become very dirty.

If the vehicle has a DSG dual clutch gearbox, it can be locked only if the selector lever is in
position P.
The entire vehicle will be unlocked if the sensor is touched twice, even if a single door has
already been unlocked.

SAFELOCK
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the vehicle may have an anti-theft alarm and SAFELOCK

⇒ Anti-theft alarm .
The SAFELOCK deactivates the door release levers if the vehicle has been locked. This makes it
more difficult to break into the vehicle. The doors can no longer be opened from the inside ⇒

.

• Press the

button on the vehicle key once⇒ Central locking system .

• Press the

button on the vehicle key twice in quick succession ⇒ Central locking system .

• Vehicles with the keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access: touch the sensor on the
outside of the door handle twice⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle with keyless access .
• Press the central locking button

in the driver door once ⇒ Central locking system .

Depending on the vehicle equipment level, there may be an indication of the activated SAFELOCK
in the display of the instrument cluster (Check SAFELOCK! or SAFELOCK).

Deactivating SAFELOCK
The SAFELOCK can be deactivated in one of the following ways:
• Switch on the ignition.
• OR: deactivate interior monitoring and the anti-tow alarm.
Depending on the vehicle equipment, temporarily deactivate interior monitoring and the anti-tow
alarm using the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system before
locking the vehicle.

The following applies when SAFELOCK is deactivated:
• The vehicle can be unlocked and opened from the inside using the door release lever.
• The anti-theft alarm ⇒ Anti-theft alarm is active.
Depending on the equipment, the interior monitoring and anti-tow alarm will be activated or
deactivated via the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

WARNING
Always take care when using the SAFELOCK as you could cause serious injuries.
• Never leave anybody in the vehicle if the vehicle has been locked using the vehicle key.
The doors can no longer be opened from the inside once the SAFELOCK is activated.
• Locked doors make it more difficult for emergency service personnel to gain access to
the vehicle and provide assistance when needed. In an emergency, people locked
inside the vehicle would not be able to leave the vehicle by unlocking the doors.

Anti-theft alarm
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, the vehicle may have an anti-theft alarm and
SAFELOCK ⇒ SAFELOCK .

The anti-theft alarm is activated automatically when the vehicle is locked using the vehicle key.

When does the system trigger an alarm?
The anti-theft alarm issues acoustic and visual alarm signals for up to five minutes if any of the
following unauthorised actions are performed while the vehicle is locked:
• A door that was unlocked mechanically with the vehicle key is opened.
• A door is opened.
• The bonnet is opened.
• The boot lid is opened.
• Switch on the ignition using an invalid vehicle key.
• If the 12-volt vehicle battery is disconnected.
• Movement inside the vehicle (in vehicles with interior monitoring ⇒ Interior monitoring system
and anti-tow alarm ).
• The vehicle is towed (in vehicles with anti-tow alarm ⇒ Interior monitoring system and anti-tow
alarm ).
• The vehicle is lifted (in vehicles with anti-tow alarm ⇒ Interior monitoring system and anti-tow
alarm ).
• The vehicle is transported on a car ferry or by rail (in vehicles with anti-tow alarm or interior
monitoring ⇒ Interior monitoring system and anti-tow alarm ).
• A trailer that is connected to the anti-theft alarm system is removed ⇒ Trailer towing .

Switching off the alarm
• Unlock the vehicle using the unlocking button

on the vehicle key.

• OR: switch on the ignition using a valid vehicle key. A short alarm lasting around one second
may sound.
• In vehicles with keyless access, the alarm can also be switched off by gripping the door handle

⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle with keyless access .
The alarm will be triggered again if a person gains access to the same or a different secured
zone after the alarm has been switched off.
The anti-theft alarm will not be activated if the vehicle is locked from the inside using the
central locking button

.

If you unlock the driver door mechanically using the vehicle key, only the driver door is
unlocked, and not the whole vehicle. The SAFELOCK mechanism on all doors is not deactivated
and the central locking button is not activated until you switch on the ignition (however the doors will
not be unlocked).
The anti-theft alarm will not function correctly if the 12-volt vehicle battery is weak or
discharged.

Interior monitoring system and anti-tow alarm

Fig. 67 In the roof console: sensors for the interior monitoring system (arrows).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If movements are detected in the vehicle interior when the vehicle is locked, the interior monitoring
system triggers an alarm ⇒ Fig. 67 .
The anti-tow alarm will be triggered if the vehicle is lifted.

Switching on the interior monitoring system and anti-tow alarm
Close the stowage compartments in the roof console, otherwise correct functioning of the interior
monitoring system cannot be fully guaranteed.

Lock the vehicle. When the anti-theft alarm is switched on, interior monitoring and the anti-tow
alarm are also active.

Temporarily switching off the interior monitoring system and anti-tow
alarm
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the interior monitoring system and anti-tow alarm can be
switched off temporarily by means of the

button or the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation

and display in the Infotainment system .
• Switch off the ignition and open the driver door.
• Press the

button. A yellow indicator lamp

in the button lights up.

• Close all doors and the boot lid.
• Lock the vehicle using the vehicle key.
Press the

button again before locking the vehicle to reactivate interior monitoring and the

anti-tow alarm.
• Switch on the ignition.
• Deactivate interior monitoring and the anti-tow alarm in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation
and display in the Infotainment system .
• Close all doors and the boot lid.
• Lock the vehicle using the vehicle key.
The interior monitoring system and anti-towing alarm are deactivated until the next time the vehicle
is locked.
We recommend deactivating interior monitoring and the anti-tow alarm in the following situations:
• If any people or animals are to remain inside the vehicle.
• If the vehicle is to be loaded onto another vehicle.
• If the vehicle is being transported.
• If the vehicle is going to be towed with one axle off the ground.
• If the vehicle is to be parked in a two-storey garage.
• If the vehicle is to be parked in a car wash.

Risk of false interior monitoring alarms
The interior monitoring system functions only when the vehicle is completely closed. Comply with
legal regulations. A false alarm can be triggered in the following situations:
• If one or more windows or the glass roof are fully or partially open.
• If lightweight items such as loose pieces of paper or items hung from the interior mirror are left
in the vehicle.
• If a mobile telephone that is left in the vehicle vibrates.
• If the vehicle is being transported.
• If the vehicle is being parked in a two-storey garage.
• If the vehicle is in a car wash.
Permanent deactivation of interior monitoring and the anti-tow alarm is not possible.

If doors or the boot lid are still open when the anti-theft alarm is activated, only the anti-theft
alarm is activated. Interior monitoring and the anti-tow alarm are not activated until all doors and the
boot lid are closed.
SAFELOCK is also deactivated when the interior monitoring system and anti-tow alarm are
switched off ⇒ SAFELOCK .

Locking the vehicle after the airbag has been triggered
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The entire vehicle is unlocked if the airbags are activated during an accident. Depending on the
extent of the damage, the vehicle can be locked as follows after an accident:
• Switch the ignition off and then back on again.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Fault in locking system: red LED flashes at short intervals and then lights up continuously. Go to a
qualified workshop.

The doors and the boot lid can be locked or unlocked manually if the vehicle key or central locking
fails ⇒ Unlocking or locking the driver door manually ⇒ Unlocking the boot lid manually .
If the turn signals do not flash as confirmation when you lock the vehicle:
• At least one of the doors or the boot lid is not closed.
• OR: convenience closing is in progress and not all windows have been closed.

Response when locking the vehicle with a second vehicle key
Keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access: Any vehicle key located inside the vehicle will
be blocked from starting the engine if the vehicle has been locked from the outside using a second
vehicle key. Press the

button on the vehicle key in the vehicle interior to enable it to start the

engine ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine .

Automatic switch-off of the sensor surfaces
• The vehicle is not unlocked or locked for an extended period.
• A sensor has been triggered an excessive number of times.
Activating sensors again:
• Wait for a short period of time.
• OR: unlock the vehicle with the

button on the vehicle key.

• OR: the boot lid is opened.
• OR: unlock the vehicle with the vehicle key ⇒ Doors .

NOTICE
Please note that the sensors in the door handles can be activated by a powerful jet of
water or steam if a valid vehicle key is simultaneously within its operating range. If at least
one window is open and the sensors in a door handle are continuously activated, all
windows will close. It is possible that all windows will open if the jet of water or steam is
moved away from the door handle sensors briefly and then moved back onto them

⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle with keyless access .

It may not be possible to lock or unlock the vehicle using keyless access if the 12-volt vehicle
battery or button cell in the vehicle key is weak or discharged. The vehicle can be locked or
unlocked manually ⇒ .
If there is no valid vehicle key in the vehicle or if it is not detected, a corresponding display
will be shown on the instrument cluster display. This may occur if the vehicle key is obstructed by
another radio signal or is covered by another item, e.g. a mobile telephone accessory or an
aluminium suitcase ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine .
The sensors may have limited functionality if they become very dirty.

Doors
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Display
⇒ Childproof lock
⇒ Unlocking or locking the driver door manually
⇒ Locking the front passenger door and rear doors manually
If, for example, the vehicle key or central locking fails, the doors, boot lid and tilting and sliding
panoramic sunroof can be locked and, with some exceptions, unlocked manually.

WARNING
Any door that is not properly closed could open suddenly while the vehicle is in motion.
This could lead to severe injuries.
• Stop as soon as possible and close the door.
• Ensure that the door is closed properly and that the lock has engaged. The closed door
must be flush with the surrounding body panels.
• Doors should only be opened or closed when you are sure there is no-one in their path.

WARNING
Any door being held open by the door arrester could close unexpectedly in strong winds
or if the vehicle is on a slope. This could lead to injuries.
• Always keep a good grip on the handle when opening and closing doors.

WARNING
The opening/closing paths of the doors and boot lid are potential danger areas where
injury can occur.
• The doors and boot lid should therefore be opened or closed only when you are sure
that nobody is in their path.

WARNING
Careless manual opening and closing of the doors can cause serious injury.
• If the vehicle is locked from the outside, the doors and electric windows cannot be
opened from the inside.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle. They could
become trapped in the vehicle in an emergency and may not be able to get themselves
to safety.
• Temperatures inside a locked vehicle may reach extremes of heat or cold, according to
season. This can cause serious injuries and illness or fatalities, especially to small
children.

NOTICE
When carrying out manual opening or closing, remove parts carefully and fit them again
correctly in order to avoid damage to the vehicle.

Display
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
A symbol in the instrument cluster display ⇒ Driver information indicates if one or more doors are
not closed properly.

Do not drive on! Open the relevant door and then close it again.

This symbol is also visible when the ignition is switched off and will go out a few seconds after the
vehicle has been locked when all doors are closed.

WARNING
If the doors are not closed properly, they can open suddenly while the vehicle is in motion.
This can lead to severe injuries.
• Stop as soon as possible and close all doors.
• After closing the doors, always check that they are all properly secured in the lock
carrier.

The symbol can differ depending on the version of the instrument cluster.

Childproof lock

Fig. 68 Childproof lock: rear left door, rear right door.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 68 :
Child lock is switched off.
Child lock is switched on.
The childproof lock prevents the rear doors being opened from the inside.
When the childproof lock is activated, the door can only be opened from the outside.

Switching the child lock on and off
• Unlock the vehicle and open the appropriate rear door.
• Move the slot to the corresponding position.

WARNING
When the childproof lock is activated, the door cannot be opened from the inside.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle when the
doors are locked. This may mean that these people lock themselves in the vehicle.
They could become trapped in the vehicle in an emergency and may not be able to get
themselves to safety. People locked in the vehicle may be subjected to very high or
very low temperatures.
• Temperatures inside a locked vehicle may reach extremes of heat or cold, according to
season. This can cause serious injuries and illness or fatalities, especially to small
children.

Unlocking or locking the driver door manually

Fig. 69 Driver door handle: concealed lock cylinder

Fig. 70 Driver door handle: lever off cap.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If locked manually, all doors are locked. If unlocked manually, only the driver door is unlocked.
Observe information on the anti-theft alarm ⇒ Central locking system .
• Pull on the door release lever until the cap is removed.
• Position the key bit on the notch in the driver door handle from below.
• Hold your index finger under the key bit .
• Lift the cap off with the vehicle key in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 70 .
• Insert the key bit into the lock cylinder and lock or unlock the vehicle.
• Pull the door release lever and put the cap back in position.

Things to note when unlocking manually:
• The anti-theft alarm stays active when the vehicle is unlocked. However, the alarm will not be
triggered ⇒ Central locking system .
• The alarm will be triggered when the driver door is opened ⇒ Central locking system .
• The vehicle must be started manually once unlocked ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine .
• When the ignition is switched on, the electronic immobiliser detects a valid vehicle key and
deactivates the anti-theft alarm system.
The anti-theft alarm is not activated when the vehicle is locked manually using the key bit

⇒ Central locking system .

Locking the front passenger door and rear doors manually
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The front passenger door and the rear doors can be locked manually. This does not activate the
anti-theft alarm.
• Open the door.
• Remove the rubber seal

from the end face of the door.

• Insert the key bit into the slot and turn.
• Secure the rubber seal again.
• Ensure that the door is locked.
• The vehicle should be checked by a qualified workshop as soon as possible.
The manually locked door is unlocked again when the vehicle is unlocked or the door is opened
from the inside.

The doors can be unlocked and opened from the inside by pulling the door release handle.

Boot lid
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Opening and closing the boot lid
⇒ Electrically opening and closing the boot lid
⇒ Boot lid with movement sensor ()
⇒ Automatically closing the boot lid ()
⇒ Unlocking the boot lid manually
⇒ Troubleshooting
The boot lid is unlocked and locked together with the doors.
On vehicles with the keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access, the boot lid is unlocked
automatically when it is opened ⇒ Locking and unlocking the vehicle with keyless access .

WARNING
Incorrect and unsupervised unlocking, opening or closing of the boot lid can cause
accidents and serious injuries.
• The boot lid should only be opened or closed when you are sure that nobody is in its
path.
• Always check that the boot lid is properly closed after closing it. The closed boot lid
must be flush with the surrounding body panels.
• Always keep the boot lid closed while the vehicle is in motion.
• Never open the boot lid when loads, e.g. bicycles, are attached to it. The boot lid may
close under its own weight due to the additional load. Support the boot lid as
necessary or remove the load before opening.
• Close and lock the boot lid and all vehicle doors when the vehicle is not in use. Ensure
that no one remains in the vehicle.
• Never leave children playing unattended in or around the vehicle, especially when the
boot lid is open. Children could climb into the luggage compartment and shut the boot
lid, thereby trapping themselves inside. Temperatures inside a locked vehicle may
reach extremes of heat or cold, according to season. This can cause serious injuries
and illness or fatalities, especially to small children.

WARNING
Serious injuries could occur if the boot lid is unlocked or opened incorrectly or without
due care and attention.
• The boot lid may not always be detected as being unlocked if there is a carrier and
items attached to it. The boot lid may open suddenly while the vehicle is in motion if it
is unlocked.

WARNING
If there is a large amount of snow or a heavy load on the boot lid, the boot lid may lower
by itself and cause serious injuries due to the additional weight.
• Never open the boot lid if it is covered by a large amount of snow or a load is attached
to it, e.g. a rack or luggage carrier.
• Remove the snow or luggage before opening the boot lid.

WARNING
Do not push down the boot lid with your hand on the rear window. The rear window could
shatter and cause injuries.

NOTICE
Never use the opening mechanism to fix or hold a load. This could lead to damage that
makes it impossible to close the boot lid.

NOTICE
Never use the rear wiper or rear spoiler to fix or hold a load. This could lead to damage
where the rear window wiper or rear spoiler is torn off.

Opening and closing the boot lid

Fig. 71 In the driver door: release button for the boot lid.

Fig. 72 In the boot lid: button for opening the boot lid.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening the boot lid
• Press the

button on the vehicle key to unlock the boot lid.

• OR: pull the

button in the driver door upwards ⇒ Fig. 71 .

• Lift the boot lid up using the ⇒ Fig. 72 button.

Closing the boot lid
• Pull the boot lid downwards by the handle in the interior trim with sufficient momentum so that it
engages in the lock ⇒

.

The instrument cluster display indicates if the boot lid is open or not closed properly ⇒ Warning and
indicator lamp overview .
The boot lid is locked automatically when the vehicle is moving.

WARNING
Serious injuries could occur if the boot lid is closed incorrectly or without due care and
attention.
• When closing the boot lid, please ensure that there are no hands in the direct path of
the boot lid as it moves.

If the boot lid is not opened within the next few minutes after unlocking, it automatically locks
again.

Electrically opening and closing the boot lid
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening the boot lid electrically

• Briefly press and hold the

button on the vehicle key to unlock the boot lid.

button in the driver door upwards ⇒ Fig. 71 .

• OR: pull the

• OR: press the button in the boot lid ⇒ Fig. 72 .
The boot lid will then open.

Closing the boot lid electrically
• Press the
• OR: pull the

button in the open boot lid.
button in the driver door upwards.

• OR: briefly press and hold the

button on the vehicle key.

• OR: close the boot lid by moving it manually until the boot lid closes by itself.
The boot lid is closed.

Interrupting the opening or closing procedure
• Press one of the

buttons during the opening or closing procedure.

The boot lid can now be moved by hand. You will need to use increased force to do this.
Pressing the

button again moves the boot lid back into the starting position.

Signal tones
If the boot lid is opened or closed from the vehicle interior or using the vehicle key, signal tones will
sound.

Changing and storing the opening angle
If the area behind or above the vehicle is smaller than the path of the boot lid, the opening angle of
the boot lid can be changed.
• Stop the opening procedure at the desired open position (at least half open).
• In the opened boot lid, press and hold the

button until the hazard warning lights

flash.
The changed opening angle will be stored.
The hazard warning lights flash and an acoustic signal sounds to confirm that the changed opening
angle has been stored.

Resetting and storing the opening angle
To reset the opening angle so that the boot lid opens fully again, press the open boot lid upwards
with your hand up to the limit position. You will need to use increased force to do this.
In the opened boot lid, press and hold the

button until the hazard warning lights flash.

The opening angle will be reset.
The hazard warning lights flash and an acoustic signal sounds to confirm that the opening angle
has been reset.

NOTICE
Before opening or closing the boot lid, please check that there is enough space to open
and close it, for example when in a garage.

Boot lid with movement sensor (Easy Open)

Fig. 73 Sensor-controlled luggage compartment opener (Easy Open).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The boot lid can be unlocked and opened with a foot movement if there is a valid vehicle key in the
operating range of the boot lid.

• Stand behind the centre of the bumper.
• Move your foot and shin quickly towards the bumper. The shin must be placed in the upper area
of the sensor, and the foot in the lower area ⇒ Fig. 73 .
• Then quickly move your foot and shin away from the sensor area again. The boot lid will then
open.
The boot lid will lock again automatically, provided that the vehicle was locked beforehand and as
long as there is no valid vehicle key inside the vehicle.

Activating or deactivating Easy Open
You can activate and deactivate Easy Open in the Vehicle settings menu in the Infotainment
system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

Automatically closing the boot lid (Easy Close)

Fig. 74 In the open boot lid: button for electric closing of the boot lid.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Press the Easy Close button ⇒ Fig. 74 . The indicator lamp in the button flashes. Easy Close is
activated for 20 seconds.
The boot lid will be closed as soon as all valid vehicle keys have been removed from the operating
range of the boot lid.
Easy Close allows a maximum of one vehicle key to be locked into the boot.
The closing operation will be interrupted as soon as a vehicle key enters the operating range again.
The boot lid will then open again.

Unlocking the boot lid manually

Fig. 75 In the luggage compartment: manual release for the boot lid.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Insert the key bit into the boot lid opening ⇒ Fig. 75 and press the release lever in the direction
of the arrow.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Buttons for boot lid do not work: when towing a trailer, the boot lid can be opened and closed
only at the boot lid ⇒ Trailer towing .

Boot lid does not close or open fully
Check whether the boot lid is blocked by an obstacle. The boot lid can be moved by hand. You will
need to use increased force to do this.

The drive switches off automatically in order to prevent overheating if the boot lid is operated too
frequently in a short space of time. Until the drive has cooled down the boot lid can be opened and
closed by hand using more force than usual.
The boot lid must be closed by hand if the 12-volt vehicle battery or fuse is disconnected or faulty.

Vehicle turn signals flash four times
Check whether the vehicle key is still in the vehicle.

Boot lid is stiff
At outside temperatures below freezing point, the opening mechanism cannot always lift the
partially opened boot lid automatically. If this happens, guide the boot lid further up by hand.

Sensor-controlled luggage compartment opener (Easy Open) is not
working
• Easy Open works only when the ignition is switched off.
• Clean the sensors in the rear bumper.
• The towing bracket is swivelled out ⇒ Trailer towing .
• A towing bracket has been retrofitted to the vehicle ⇒ Trailer towing .
• During heavy rain, Easy Open may be deactivated in order to prevent accidental activation.

Automatic closing (Easy Close) is not working
• Switch off the ignition and close the driver door.
• The boot lid must be at least half-closed.
• Unhitch the trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .
• There is more than one vehicle key in the luggage compartment.
• Press the Easy Close button again.

Windows
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Opening and closing windows
⇒ Electric window roll-back function
⇒ Troubleshooting

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the electric windows can cause serious injuries.
• The electric windows should be opened or closed only when you are sure that nobody
is in their operating area.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle when the
vehicle is locked. The windows can no longer be opened in an emergency.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle. The windows
can still be operated using the buttons in the doors for a short time after the ignition
has been switched off, provided that the driver door and front passenger door are not
opened.
• When transporting children on the rear bench seat, the rear electric windows should
always be deactivated using the safety button so that they cannot be opened or closed.

NOTICE
During sudden rain showers, water can enter the vehicle interior via open windows and
cause damage to the vehicle.

Opening and closing windows
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The buttons are located in the doors ⇒ Driver door .
Open windows: press the button. Close windows: pull the button.

Press to disable the

electric window buttons in the rear doors.
The windows can still be operated using the buttons in the doors for a short time after the ignition
has been switched off, provided that the driver door and front passenger door are not opened.

One-touch opening and closing
One-touch opening and closing makes it possible to fully open and close the windows. The
individual buttons do not have to be held down to do this.
One-touch closing: pull the button for the appropriate window up briefly into the second position.
One-touch opening: press the button for the appropriate window down briefly into the second
position.
Stopping the one-touch function: press or pull the button for the appropriate window again.

Convenience opening and closing
The windows can be opened and closed from outside the vehicle using the vehicle key when the
ignition is switched off:
• Press and hold the locking or unlocking button on the vehicle key.
• Vehicles with the keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access: place your finger on the
locking sensor in the door handle for a few seconds until the windows are closed ⇒ Central
locking system . The vehicle key must also be within the operating range.
• To interrupt the function, release the unlocking or locking button OR take your finger off the
sensor surface.
A valid vehicle key must be located in the operating range. All turn signals will flash once as
confirmation that all the windows have been closed.
Adjust the settings for convenience opening using the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display
in the Infotainment system .

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the electric windows can cause serious injuries.
• The electric windows should be opened or closed only when you are sure that nobody
is in their operating area.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle when the
vehicle is locked. The windows can no longer be opened in an emergency.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle. The windows
can still be operated using the buttons in the doors for a short time after the ignition
has been switched off, provided that the driver door and front passenger door are not
opened.
• When transporting children on the rear bench seat, the rear electric windows should
always be deactivated using the safety button so that they cannot be opened or closed.

One-touch opening and closing and the roll-back function will not work if there is a
malfunction in the electric windows. Go to a qualified workshop.
Convenience opening and closing works only when one-touch opening and closing is
activated for all electric windows.

Electric window roll-back function
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The roll-back function for the electric windows can reduce the risk of crush injuries when the
windows are closing.
If the window is not able to close because it is stiff or because of an obstruction, the window will
immediately open again ⇒

.

• Check to see why the window has not closed.
• Try to close the window again.
• If the window closing process is interrupted again, the roll-back function will be disabled for a
few seconds.
• If the window still cannot be closed, it will stop at the corresponding position. To close the
window without the roll-back function, press the button again within a few seconds ⇒

.

WARNING
Closing the electric windows without the roll-back function can lead to severe injuries.
• Always close the window carefully.
• Ensure that nobody obstructs the path of the window, especially if a window is being
closed when the roll-back function is not active.
• The roll-back function does not prevent fingers or other body parts from being pressed
against the window frame and sustaining injury.

The roll-back function is also activated if the windows are closed using the vehicle key for
convenience closing.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Restoring one-touch opening and closing
One-touch opening and closing is deactivated if the 12-volt vehicle battery has been disconnected
or discharged while the windows were not fully closed. The function will have to be reset.
• Switch on the ignition.
• Close all windows and doors.
• Pull up the button for the window and hold it in this position for a few seconds.
• Let go of the button then pull it up again and hold it in this position. One-touch opening and
closing is now ready for operation.
The one-touch function can be restored for individual windows or for several windows at the same
time.

Closing the window without the roll-back function
• Try to close the window again within a few seconds by holding the button. The roll-back
function will be deactivated for a small section of the path of the closing window.
• If the closing procedure takes longer than several seconds, the roll-back function will be
reactivated. If it is still stiff or obstructed, the window will stop and will open itself automatically
again.
• Please go to a qualified workshop if the window still cannot be closed.

Glass roof
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Opening and closing the glass roof
⇒ Glass roof roll-back function
⇒ Troubleshooting
The term glass roof is used for the tilting and sliding panoramic sunroof.
The glass roof is a roof opening system featuring two glass elements. The rear glass element is
fixed and cannot be opened.

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the glass roof can cause serious injuries.
• Open and close the glass roof only when you are sure that nobody is in the operating
area.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the car, particularly if they
have access to the vehicle key. Unsupervised use of the vehicle key can lock the
vehicle, start the engine, switch on the ignition and operate the glass roof.
• The glass roof can still be opened or closed for a short time after the ignition has been
switched off, provided the driver door or front passenger door are not opened.

NOTICE
• To avoid damage during cold weather, clear any ice and snow off the vehicle roof
before opening or tilting the glass roof.
• Always close the glass roof when you leave the vehicle or if it starts to rain. Any rain
entering the vehicle when the glass roof is open or tilted could cause significant
damage to the electrical system. This can result in further damage to the vehicle.

Remove leaves and other loose items from the glass roof guide rails at regular intervals
using a vacuum cleaner, or by hand.
The roll-back function will not work properly if there is a malfunction with the glass roof. Go to
a qualified workshop.

Opening and closing the glass roof

Fig. 76 In the roof: button for the glass roof.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The sun blind automatically opens at the same time as the glass roof when closed. The sun blind
can be closed completely only once the glass roof has been closed.
The

button has 2 positions. 1st stage: fully or partially tilt, open or close the roof.

2nd stage: automatically move the roof to the respective limit position. Press the button again to
stop the one-touch function.
• Tilting the glass roof: push the button ⇒ Fig. 76Ⓑ to position 1. One-touch function: push button
Ⓑ to position 2.
• Closing the tilted glass roof: push the button Ⓐ to position 1. One-touch function: push button Ⓐ
to position 2.
• Stopping one-stop function of the opening or closing procedure: Push button Ⓐ or Ⓑ again.
• Opening the glass roof: push the button Ⓒ to position 1. One-touch function up to convenience
position: push button Ⓒ to position 2.
• Closing the glass roof: push the button Ⓓ to position 1. One-touch function: push button Ⓓ to
position 2.
• Stopping one-stop function of the opening or closing procedure: Push button Ⓒ or Ⓓ again.

Glass roof roll-back function
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The roll-back function reduces the risk of crush injuries ⇒

. If the tilting and sliding panoramic

sunroof is impaired during the closing process, it will open again immediately.
• Check to see why the glass roof has not closed.
• Try to close the glass roof again.
• If the glass roof still cannot be closed, close it without the roll-back function.

Closing the glass roof without the roll-back function
• Press the

button to the 2nd position Ⓓ until the glass roof has fully closed.

• The glass roof will now close without the roll-back function.
• Please go to a qualified workshop if the glass roof still cannot be closed.
If you let go of the switch during the closing procedure, the glass roof will open automatically.

WARNING
Closing the glass roof without the roll-back function can cause serious injuries.
• Always close the glass roof carefully.
• Ensure that nobody obstructs the path of the glass roof, especially if the roll-back
function is not active.
• The roll-back function does not prevent fingers or other body parts from being pressed
against the roof frame and sustaining injury.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Glass roof will not close
• The glass roof only works when the ignition is switched on. The glass roof can still be opened or
closed for a short time after the ignition has been switched off, provided the driver door or front
passenger door are not opened.

Steering wheel
Adjusting the steering wheel position

Fig. 77 Below the steering wheel in the steering column trim: lever for mechanical adjustment of the
steering wheel position.

Fig. 78 On the steering wheel: 9 o'clock and 3 o'clock position.

Adjust the steering wheel position before setting off and only when the vehicle is stationary ⇒
• Push down the lever ⇒ Fig. 77① .
• Adjust the steering wheel so that you can hold it with both hands at its circumference at the 9
o'clock and 3 o'clock positions with your arms slightly bent ⇒ Fig. 78 .
• Push the lever up firmly until it is flush with the steering column trim ⇒

.

.

WARNING
Incorrect use of the steering column position adjustment and incorrect adjustment of the
steering wheel can cause serious or fatal injuries.
• After adjusting the steering column, always move lever ⇒ Fig. 77① up so that it
engages securely. This prevents the steering column from moving spontaneously
while the vehicle is in motion.
• Never adjust the steering wheel when the vehicle is in motion. If you determine that a
readjustment is necessary, stop the vehicle safely and adjust the steering wheel to the
correct position.
• The steering wheel must always point towards the chest and not towards the face. This
ensures that the driver front airbag provides maximum protection in the event of an
accident.
• While driving, always keep both hands on the outside of the steering wheel at the 9
o'clock and 3 o'clock positions⇒ Fig. 78 . This reduces the risk of injury if the driver
front airbag is triggered.
• Never hold the steering wheel at the 12 o'clock position, or in any other manner, e.g. on
the hub of the steering wheel. If the driver front airbag is triggered, you could receive
severe injuries to the arms, hands and head.

Seats and head restraints
Front seats
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Mechanically adjusting the front seat
⇒ Electrically adjusting the front seat
⇒ Folding the front passenger seat backrest forwards
The following section describes the options for adjusting the front seats. Always ensure that the
correct sitting position is adjusted ⇒ Sitting position .

WARNING
Always adjust the front seats to their correct position before any journey and ensure that
any passenger has fastened their seat belt.
• Push the front passenger seat as far back as possible.
• Adjust the driver seat so that there is at least 25 cm between your breastbone and the
hub of the steering wheel. Adjust the driver seat by moving it forwards or backwards
so that you are able to press the pedals to the floor with your knees still slightly bent
and so that the distance from the dash panel to your knees is at least 10 cm. If your
build makes it impossible to fulfil this requirement then you must contact a qualified
workshop so they can make any necessary modifications.
• Never travel with the backrest tilted far back. The further back the backrest is tilted, the
greater the risk of injury caused by incorrect seat belt routing or an incorrect sitting
position.
• Never travel with the backrest tilted far forwards. When a front airbag is triggered it
could force the seat backrest backwards and injure vehicle occupants on the back
seats.
• Adopt and maintain the greatest possible distance from the steering wheel and dash
panel.
• You should always sit upright with your back against the seat backrest with the front
seats properly adjusted. Do not position any body part too close where the airbags are
fitted.
• The risk of serious injury is increased for passengers on the rear seat if they are not
sitting upright because the seat belts are incorrectly positioned.

WARNING
Incorrect adjustment of the seats can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Only adjust the seats when the vehicle is stationary. The seats could change position
unexpectedly if you attempt to reposition them while the vehicle is in motion, leading
to a loss of control of the vehicle. Furthermore, an incorrect seating position is
adopted while adjusting the seat.
• Only adjust the height and tilt of the seat or move it forwards and backwards when the
area around the seat is clear.
• To be able to make adjustments to the seats, the area around them must not be
restricted by any items.
• Only adjust the height of the rear seat or move it forwards and backwards when the
area around the seat is clear.
• The areas for adjusting and locking the seats must not be soiled.

WARNING
Improper use of seat covers or protective covers may lead to the electrical seat controls
being operated accidentally and the front seats moving unexpectedly while the vehicle is
moving. You could lose control over the vehicle. This could result in serious injury and
accidents. Furthermore, this may result in damage to the electrical components in the
front seats.
• Never attach or secure seat covers or protective covers to the electrical controls.
• Do not fit seat covers or protective covers over the seats unless they have been
expressly approved for use in the vehicle.

WARNING
Cigarette lighters in the vehicle could be damaged or accidentally lit. This could lead to
serious burns and other injuries.
• Before adjusting the seats always ensure that there is no lighter on or near the
moveable parts of the seat.
• Before closing stowage areas or compartments always ensure that there is no lighter
in the way.
• Never stow lighters in stowage areas, compartments or on other surfaces in the
vehicle. High surface temperatures, especially in summer, may cause cigarette lighters
to self-ignite.

Mechanically adjusting the front seat

Fig. 79 On the left front seat: controls (type 1).

Fig. 80 On the left front seat: controls (type 2).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following section contains a description of all possible controls. The number of controls may
vary depending on the version of the seat.
The seat may have a combination of mechanical and electrical controls.
The control elements are mirrored for the front right-hand seat.

Adjusting the seat position (type 1)
Key to ⇒ Fig. 79 :
Move the lever to adjust the lumbar support.
Take your weight off the backrest and turn the handwheel to adjust the backrest.
Move the lever up or down, several times if necessary, to adjust the seat height.
Pull the lever to push the front seat forwards or backwards. The front seat must engage
after the lever has been released.

Adjusting the seat position (type 2)
Key to ⇒ Fig. 80 :
Take your weight off the backrest and turn the handwheel to adjust the backrest.
Move the lever up or down, several times if necessary, to adjust the seat height.
If necessary, pull or push the lever several times to adjust the angle of the seat cushion.
Raise the handle to slide the seat cushion forwards or backwards.
Pull the lever to push the front seat forwards or backwards. The front seat must engage
after the lever has been released.

Electrically adjusting the front seat

Fig. 81 Switches on the front left seat: adjusting the front seat forwards or backwards, adjusting the
backrest and the seat cushion for height and tilt.

Fig. 82 Switch on the front left seat: adjusting the lumbar support.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The control elements are mirrored for the front right-hand seat.
The seat may have a combination of mechanical and electrical controls.

Adjusting the seat position
Pressing the switch in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 81 :
ⒶSlides the seat forwards or backwards.ⒷAdjusts the angle of the seat cushion.ⒸRaises or lowers
the seat.ⒹAdjusts the angle of the backrest.

Adjusting the lumbar support
Press the switch in the corresponding area ⇒ Fig. 82
①Adjust the curve of the lumbar support forwards.②Adjust the curve of the lumbar support
backwards.③Adjust the curve of the lumbar support upwards.④Adjust the curve of the lumbar
support downwards.

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the electric front seats can result in severe injuries.
• The electrical front seat adjustment also works when the ignition is switched off. Never
leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle.
• In the event of an emergency, stop the electrical adjustment by pressing another
switch.

NOTICE
To avoid damaging the electrical components in the front seats, do not kneel on the seats
or apply sharp pressure at a single point on the seat cushion and backrest.

It may not be possible to adjust the seat electrically if the charge level of the 12-volt vehicle
battery is too low.
Starting the engine will interrupt the seat adjustment procedure.

Folding the front passenger seat backrest forwards

Fig. 83 Front passenger seat: folding backrest forwards.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The front passenger seat backrest can be folded forwards to a horizontal position.
The front passenger front airbag must be switched off if any items are to be transported on the front
passenger seat when folded forwards ⇒ Airbag system .

Folding the front passenger seat backrest forwards
• Remove any items from the front passenger seat cushion ⇒

.

• Lower the front passenger seat down as far as possible ⇒ Sitting position .

• Push the front passenger seat as far back as possible ⇒ Sitting position .
• Push the head restraint all the way down ⇒ Sitting position .
• Release the front passenger seat backrest in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 83① .
• Fold the front passenger seat backrest forwards in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 83② until it
is horizontal.
• When it is folded down, the front passenger seat backrest must click securely into place.

Folding back the front passenger seat backrest
• When folding back, check that there are no items or body parts near the hinges.
• To fold back, release the front passenger seat backrest ⇒ Fig. 83① .
• Fold back the front passenger seat backrest so that it is upright.
• When it is folded up, the front passenger seat backrest must click securely into place.

WARNING
Injuries could be caused if the front passenger seat backrests are folded forwards and
backwards carelessly.
• Fold the front passenger seat backrest forwards and backwards only when the vehicle
is stationary.
• While folding the front passenger seat backrest forwards, always ensure that there are
no people, animals or objects in its path.
• The front airbag must be switched off and the PASSENGER AIR BAG
indicator lamp will light up for as long as the front passenger seat backrest is folded
forwards.
• When folding forwards and backwards, keep all hands, fingers, feet and other body
parts away from the seat hinges and seat release mechanism.
• Floor mats or other objects could get caught in the hinges on the front passenger seat
backrest. This could cause the front passenger seat backrest to fail to engage securely
when it is returned to the upright position.
• When being folded back, the front passenger seat backrest must be securely locked in
the upright position. If the front passenger seat backrest is not locked properly it could
move suddenly and cause severe injuries.

WARNING
The open seat anchors and hinges of the folded front passenger seat backrest could
cause serious injuries in the event of a sudden braking manoeuvre or accident.
• Never transport people (adults or children) on the front passenger seat if the front
passenger seat backrest is folded forwards.
• If the front passenger seat backrest is folded forwards, you should only use the outer
rear seat behind the driver seat. This also applies to children in child seats.

Rear seats
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Adjusting the rear bench seat
⇒ Folding the backrests on the rear bench seat forwards and backwards
The following section describes the options for adjusting the rear seats. Always ensure that the
correct sitting position is adjusted ⇒ Sitting position .

WARNING
Incorrect adjustment of the rear seat can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• The rear seat should be adjusted only when the vehicle is stationary as the rear seat
could otherwise move unexpectedly while the vehicle is in motion. Furthermore, an
incorrect seating position is adopted while adjusting the seat.
• The rear seat should only be adjusted when there is no one in the direct area.

WARNING
Cigarette lighters in the vehicle could be damaged or accidentally lit. This could lead to
serious burns and other injuries.
• Before adjusting the seats always ensure that there is no lighter on or near the
moveable parts of the seat.
• Before closing stowage areas or compartments always ensure that there is no lighter
in the way.
• Never stow lighters in stowage areas, compartments or on other surfaces in the
vehicle. High surface temperatures, especially in summer, may cause cigarette lighters
to self-ignite.

NOTICE
• Items in the luggage compartment could cause damage when pushing the rear seat
forwards or backwards.
• When the rear seat is moved forwards, objects could move into the space between the
seat and luggage compartment floor. Remove any items or objects from this space
before pushing the rear seat back.

Adjusting the rear bench seat

Fig. 84 Underneath the seat cushion on the rear bench seat: adjustment lever.

Fig. 85 Adjusting the rear bench seat backrest.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The rear bench seat is split 40:60. Each section can be adjusted separately.

Adjusting the rear bench seat
• Pull up the right-hand or left-hand lever in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 84 and move the
corresponding element of the rear bench seat either forwards or backwards.
• Release the lever and engage the rear bench seat element in position by pushing forwards and
backwards gently.

Adjusting the rear bench seat backrest
• Push down on the left-hand or right-hand side of the backrest with one hand and simultaneously
pull on the corresponding loop with the other hand ⇒ Fig. 85① .

• Adjust the rear seat backrest to the required position with your hand against the spring pressure

⇒ Fig. 85② .
• Release the loop and engage the rear seat backrest in position by moving it forwards or
backwards gently.

Folding the backrests on the rear bench seat forwards and
backwards

Fig. 86 Folding the backrest forwards and backwards.

Fig. 87 In the luggage compartment: remote release lever for the left ① and the right ② parts of
the rear backrest.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The rear seat is split for folding. Each part of the rear seat backrest can be folded down to increase
the size of the luggage compartment.

Folding the rear seat backrest forwards
• Push the head restraint all the way down ⇒ Head restraints .
• Slide the rear bench seat back as far as it will go.
• Fold down the folding table if necessary.
• Pull the loop ⇒ Fig. 86 forwards in the direction of the arrow while simultaneously supporting
and folding the rear seat backrest forwards ⇒

.

• Fold the rear seat backrest completely forward by hand until it locks in place.

Folding rear backrest forwards with the remote release button
• Push the head restraint all the way down ⇒ Head restraints .
• Open the boot lid ⇒ Boot lid .
• Pull the remote release lever ⇒ Fig. 87 for the section of the backrest that is to be folded
forwards.
• The corresponding backrest section of the rear seat backrest is unlocked and can be folded
forwards.
• Close the boot lid if it is open ⇒ Boot lid .

Folding back the rear seat backrest
• Use the loop to release the rear seat backrest. The rear seat backrest pops out of the catch.
• Keep pulling on the loop while folding back the rear seat rest.
• Make sure that the seat belt is not caught anywhere.
• Fold back the rear seat backrest until it is securely engaged ⇒
• The rear seat backrest must always be securely engaged.
• If necessary, fold back the rear seat backrests.
• Adjust the head restraint if necessary.

.

WARNING
Injuries can be caused if the rear backrests are folded forwards and backwards carelessly.
• While folding the rear backrest, always make sure that no people, animals or items are
in the path.
• Never fold the rear seat backrest forwards or backwards while the vehicle is in motion.
• Ensure that the seat belt is not trapped or damaged when folding back the rear seat
backrest.
• Always keep hands, fingers, feet or other body parts away from the seat area when
folding the rear seat backrest forwards and backwards.
• Ensure that the rear seat backrest engages securely, otherwise the seat belts for the
rear seats will not work properly. This applies to the centre seat of the rear bench seat
in particular. If a seat is occupied and the rear seat backrest has not engaged securely
into place, the seat occupant and rear seat backrest may move forwards in the event of
a sudden braking or driving manoeuvre or during accidents.
• Passengers (adults and children) must not use seats if the backrest is folded forwards
or is not clicked securely into place.

NOTICE
Damage to the vehicle or to other objects could be caused if the rear bench seat backrest
is folded forwards and backwards in an uncontrolled way or without taking appropriate
care.
• Before folding the rear seat backrests forwards, always adjust the front seats so that
the rear head restraints or rear seat backrest cushions do not rub against the front
seats.
• Before folding down the rear seat backrest, always ensure that there are no objects
located in its path.

Head restraints
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Adjusting the head restraints
⇒ Removing and fitting head restraints
The following section describes the options for adjusting and removing the head restraints. Always
ensure that the correct sitting position is adjusted ⇒ Sitting position .
Every seat is fitted with a head restraint. The centre head restraint at the rear is designed solely for
use with the centre rear bench seat. Therefore you should not install the head restraint in any of the
other positions.

Correct head restraint setting
Adjust the head restraint so that its upper edge is at the same height as the top of the head, but not
lower than eye level. Position the back of your head as close to the head restraint as possible.
In vehicles with head restraints that can be adjusted in the longitudinal direction, push the head
restraints on the front seats as close as possible to the back of your head.

Head restraint setting for shorter people
Push the head restraint all the way down, even if the head is then underneath the top edge of the
head restraint. There may be a small gap between the head restraint and backrest in the lowest
position.

Head restraint setting for taller people
Push the head restraint up as far as it will go.

WARNING
Driving without head restraints or with incorrectly adjusted head restraints increases the
risk of severe or fatal injuries in the event of an accident or sudden driving or braking
manoeuvre.
• If a seat is occupied, the head restraint for that seat must be fitted and adjusted
correctly.
• Each vehicle occupant must adjust the head restraint to suit their body size, to help
reduce the risk of neck injuries in an accident. As far as possible, the upper edge of the
head restraint must be level with the top of the head, but not lower than eye level.
Position the back of your head in the middle and as close to the head restraint as
possible.
• Never adjust the head restraint when the vehicle is in motion.

NOTICE
When removing or fitting head restraints, make sure that they do not hit the roof, the front
seat backrest or other parts of the vehicle. This will prevent damage from occurring.

Adjusting the head restraints

Fig. 88 Adjusting the front head restraints: without longitudinal adjustment, with longitudinal
adjustment.

Fig. 89 Rear head restraint: adjusting.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Adjusting the height of the head restraint
• Press the button ⇒ Fig. 88① or ⇒ Fig. 89① if necessary and slide the head restraint up or
down in the direction of the arrow ⇒

.

• The head restraint must click securely into position.

Adjusting front head restraint in longitudinal direction
• Push the head restraint forwards in the direction of the arrow or press button ⇒ Fig. 88
and push it backwards.
• The head restraint must click securely into position.

Removing and fitting head restraints

①

Fig. 90 Front head restraint: removing.

Fig. 91 Rear head restraint: removing.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Removing the front head restraint
• You may need to lower the head restraint ⇒

.

• To unlock it, feel for the recess in the marked area on the rear side and press in in the direction
of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 90① .
• Pull the head restraint out in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 90② .

Fitting the front head restraint
• Position the head restraint correctly over the head restraint guides and then insert into the
guides of the corresponding seat backrest.
• Slide the head restraint all the way down until the guide pins click into place.
• Adjust the head restraint so a correct sitting position can be assumed.

Removing the rear head restraints
• If necessary, adjust the backrest so that the head restraint can be removed.
• Push the head restraint all the way up ⇒

.

• Pull the head restraint out fully while pressing the button ⇒ Fig. 91① .

Fitting the rear head restraints
• Release the rear seat backrest and fold the backrest forwards slightly ⇒ Rear seats .
• Position the head restraint correctly over the head restraint guides and then insert into the
guides of the corresponding seat backrest.
• Press and hold the button ⇒ Fig. 91① and push down the head restraint.
• Push back the rear seat backrest and allow it to engage securely.
• Adjust the head restraint so that a correct sitting position can be assumed ⇒ Sitting position .

Seat functions
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Memory function
⇒ Centre armrest
⇒ Massage function
The following section describes the seat functions. Always ensure that you adjust the correct sitting
position ⇒ Sitting position .

WARNING
Incorrect use of the seat functions can cause serious injuries.
• Always assume a correct sitting position before you drive and maintain this position
throughout the trip. This also applies to all passengers.
• Switch the massage function on and off only when the vehicle is stationary.
• The memory function should be adjusted only when the vehicle is stationary.
• Keep hands, fingers, feet and other body parts away from the moving parts of the
seats.

Memory function

Fig. 92 On the outside of the driver seat: memory buttons.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The memory buttons can be used to store and recall settings for the driver seat and the exterior
mirrors.

Memory buttons
You can assign individual settings for the driver seat and exterior mirrors to each of the memory
buttons.

Storing driver seat and exterior mirror settings for driving forwards
• Switch on the electronic parking brake.
• Put the gearbox into neutral.
• Switch on the ignition.
• Adjust the driver seat and exterior mirror.
• Press the

button for longer than one second ⇒ Fig. 92 .

• Press the desired memory button within approximately ten seconds. A gong signal will sound to
confirm that the settings have been saved.

Storing front passenger exterior mirror settings for reversing
• Switch on the electronic parking brake.
• Put the gearbox into neutral.
• Switch on the ignition.
• Press the desired memory button.
• Select reverse gear.
• Adjust the exterior mirror on the front passenger side so that you have a good view of the kerb
area.
• The settings for the mirror position will be saved automatically and assigned to the vehicle key
that is used to unlock the vehicle.

Accessing driver seat and exterior mirror settings
• While the vehicle is stationary and the ignition is switched on, briefly touch the required memory
button.
• OR: while the ignition is switched off, press and hold the required memory button until the
saved position is reached.
• The front passenger exterior mirror will leave the stored reversing position automatically if the
vehicle drives forwards at a minimum speed of 15 km/h (10 mph) or if you turn the rotary knob
from R to a different position ⇒ Mirrors .

Electric convenient entry and exit function
When the driver door is opened, the front seat automatically moves to a position that makes it easy
to enter and exit the vehicle.
The driver seat moves back to its original position automatically as soon as the driver door is closed
and the ignition is switched on.
The electric convenient entry and exit function can be switched on and off in the Infotainment
1)

system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

Personalisation
You can save and access your individual seat setting in a user account via the Personalisation
function ⇒ Personalisation .
After switching off the ignition and locking the vehicle, the driver seat and exterior mirror settings
are stored in the user account.
The driver seat and exterior mirror settings are opened again after the vehicle is unlocked and the
driver door is opened.
The seat responds to selecting or changing a user account as follows:

• Vehicle stationary or moving no faster than 5 km/h: seat is moved. You can cancel the
movement at any time by touching the appropriate function button in the Infotainment system or
by pressing a button on the driver seat.
• Vehicle moving faster than 5 km/h: seat is not moved. All other setup configurations are
adopted.
If the driver door is opened later than approximately 10 minutes after unlocking the vehicle,
the driver seat and exterior mirrors are not automatically adjusted.
Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .
1)

Only if the personalisation function is activated ⇒ Personalisation .

Centre armrest

Fig. 93 Front centre armrest.

Fig. 94 Rear fold-out centre armrest.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Front centre armrest
To lift, pull the centre armrest up gradually in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 93 .
To lower, pull the centre armrest all the way up. Then lower the centre armrest.
To move it backwards and forwards: push the centre armrest in the direction of the arrow all the
way forwards ⇒ Fig. 93 , or all the way backwards.

Rear centre armrest
There may be a centre armrest in the rear bench seat that can be folded out of the middle seat.
To fold it down, pull the loop in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 94 .
To fold it back: fold the centre armrest upwards in the opposite direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 94 and
push it into the backrest as far as it will go.

WARNING
The front centre armrest can obstruct the driver's arm movements. This can cause
accidents and severe injuries.
• Always keep the stowage compartments in the centre armrest closed while the vehicle
is in motion.
• Never transport an adult or child on the centre armrest. An incorrect seating position
can cause serious injury.

WARNING
The rear centre armrest must always be folded up while the vehicle is in motion in order to
reduce the risk of injury.
• The middle seat on the rear bench seat must never be used when the centre armrest is
folded down – neither by adults nor children. An incorrect sitting position can cause
severe injuries.

Massage function

Fig. 95 In the lower area of the driver seat: button for massage function.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
When the massage function is switched on, the lumbar support moves and massages the lumbar
region.
The in/out position of the lumbar support can be adjusted using the appropriate switch during a
massage ⇒ Sitting position .

Switching the massage function on or off
To switch on, press the

button in the seat control panel. To switch off, press the

button again.
The massage function is switched off automatically after approximately ten minutes.

Lights
Turn signals
Switching turn signals on and off

Fig. 96 On left of the steering column: turn signal and main beam lever.

• Switch on the ignition.
• Move the turn signal and main beam lever from the centre position to the following position:
Right turn signal.
Left turn signal.
• Return the turn signal and main beam lever to the basic position in order to switch off the turn
signal.
Go to a qualified workshop and have the vehicle checked if the acoustic signal does not sound
when a turn signal is switched on.

Convenience turn signal
To operate the convenience turn signal, push the turn signal and main beam lever up or down to
the point where you meet resistance and then release the lever. The turn signal flashes 3 times.
To cancel the convenience turn signal, immediately move the lever in the opposite direction up to
the pressure point and then release it.
The convenience turn signal can be activated and deactivated in the Infotainment system in
the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system :

WARNING
Incorrect use of turn signals, a failure to use turn signals, or forgetting to switch off a turn
signal can confuse other road users. This can lead to accidents and serious injuries.
• Always activate the turn signal in good time when changing lanes and performing
overtaking or turning manoeuvres.
• Always switch off the turn signal once the lane change or overtaking or turning
manoeuvre has been completed.

The hazard warning lights also work when the ignition is switched off ⇒ In an emergency .

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Vehicle lighting
Switching lights on and off

Fig. 97 Next to the steering wheel: light switch (one variant).

Switching lights on
• Switch on the ignition.
• Turn the light switch to the appropriate position.
Automatic headlights: the dipped beams are switched on or off automatically depending on
the brightness level and the weather ⇒

, ⇒ Automatic headlights

.

The side lights

and daytime running lights are switched on. The symbol in the light switch lights up green.

The

dipped beam headlights are switched on.

Switching off the lights
• Switch off the ignition.
• Turn the light switch to the appropriate position.
The lights are switched off.

Leaving Home function (orientation lighting) may be switched

on ⇒ Coming Home and Leaving Home function (orientation lighting) .

Side lights or

continuous parking light on both sides of the vehicle switched on ⇒ Switching the parking lights on
and off . The symbol in the light switch lights up green.

Dipped beam switched off – the side

lights remain on while the vehicle key is in the ignition lock and while the driver door is closed in
vehicles with Keyless Access.

Daytime running lights
The daytime running lights (dependent on equipment level) can increase the visibility of your
vehicle in traffic during the day.
The daytime running lights are switched on every time the ignition is switched on when the light
switch is in position

,

or

(when brightness is detected).

The daytime running lights cannot be switched on or off manually.

WARNING
Accidents and serious injuries can occur if roads are not sufficiently illuminated and other
road users have difficulty seeing the vehicle, or cannot see it at all.
• The light assist functions are designed to provide assistance only. The driver is
responsible for making sure that the vehicle lights are switched on correctly.
• Always switch the dipped beam headlights on if it is dark, raining or visibility is poor.

WARNING
The side lights or daytime running lights are not bright enough to illuminate the road
ahead and to ensure that other road users are able to see you.
• Always switch the dipped beam headlights on if it is dark, raining or visibility is poor.
• The rear lights will not be switched on with the daytime running lights. If the rear lights
are not switched on, the vehicle may not be visible to other road users if it is dark,
raining, or if visibility is poor.

WARNING
The automatic headlights function (

) switches the dipped beam headlights on and

off only when there is a change to the level of brightness.
• Switch on the dipped beam headlights manually if this is necessary due to particular
weather conditions, e.g. fog.

When reverse gear is engaged, the cornering light on both sides of the vehicle switches on
to provide better illumination of the area when manoeuvring.

Switching the fog lights on and off
• Switching on the front fog lights
The indicator lamp

: Pull the light switch ⇒ Fig. 97 out to the first stopper.

in the light switch lights up green.

• Switching on the rear fog lights

: pull the light switch all the way out. The indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster lights up yellow.
• To switch the fog lights off, press in the light switch or move it to position
If the automatic headlights are switched on

.

and the front or rear fog lights are

switched on, the dipped beam headlights will also be switched on irrespective of the current light
conditions outside.
In vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket: the vehicle's rear fog lights are switched off
automatically if a trailer with rear fog lights is electrically connected to the vehicle ⇒ Trailer towing .

Light functions
Side lights
If the light switch is in position

both headlights light up with side lights together with parts of

the tail light clusters, number plate lighting and the buttons in the centre console and the dash
panel. The daytime running lights also switch on when the ignition is switched on.
If the vehicle is not locked from outside (when the ignition is switched off) the continuous parking
light on both sides of the vehicle switches on automatically after ten minutes to reduce 12-volt
vehicle battery discharge ⇒ Switching the parking lights on and off .

Automatic headlights
When the light switch is in position

, the vehicle lighting and the instrument and switch

lighting will switch on and off automatically depending on the light conditions. When the lights are
switched on, the indicator lamp in the light switch lights up yellow.
The automatic headlight control function is merely an aid and will not always be able to detect all
driving situations.
In vehicles with a corresponding equipment level, the switch-on time for automatic headlight control
can be adjusted in the Infotainment system in the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and

display in the Infotainment system .

Cornering light
When cornering slowly or travelling around very tight bends, a static cornering light is switched on
automatically.

Dynamic cornering light (AFS)
Swivelling lamps automatically improve the lighting of the road when cornering, and even when you
are not driving round a corner. The dynamic cornering light only works at speeds above
approximately 10 km/h (6 mph) and when the dipped beam headlights are switched on.
In vehicles with a corresponding equipment level, the dynamic cornering light can be activated and
deactivated in the Infotainment system in the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and

display in the Infotainment system :

Signal tones if lights are not switched off
If the key is removed from the ignition lock and the driver door is opened, a signal tone will sound in
the following situations:
• If the parking light is switched on.
• The light switch is in position

or

.

When the Coming Home function is switched on, no signal tone will be given as a reminder that a
light is still switched on when leaving the vehicle.

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Main beam
Switching main beam on and off

Fig. 98 On left of the steering column: turn signal and main beam lever.

• Switch on the ignition and dipped beam.
• Move the turn signal and main beam lever from the centre position to the following position:
Main beam switched on.
Operate the headlight flasher or switch off the main beam. The headlight flasher comes on
for as long as the lever is pulled.
When the main beam or headlight flasher are switched on, the blue indicator lamp

in the

instrument cluster lights up.

Main-beam control
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, advanced main-beam control may also be available

⇒ Main-beam control .

WARNING
Incorrect use of the main beam headlights can lead to accidents and serious injuries as
the main beam headlights can distract and dazzle other road users.

Main-beam control
The main-beam control automatically dips the headlights when oncoming vehicles and/or vehicles
driving in front are detected. Main-beam control normally also recognises illuminated areas such as
towns and deactivates main beam while driving through them.
Within the limits of the system, main-beam control automatically switches the main beam on at
speeds of over approximately 60 km/h (37 mph), depending on ambient and traffic conditions, and
switches it off again at speeds under approximately 30 km/h (18 mph) ⇒

.

There are two versions of the main-beam control system:
• Main-beam control (Light Assist). Main-beam control automatically switches main beam on and
off when other road users are detected.
• Advanced main-beam control (Dynamic Light Assist) ⇒ Advanced main-beam control (Dynamic
Light Assist) .

In vehicles with a corresponding equipment level, main-beam control can be activated and
deactivated in the Infotainment system in the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and

display in the Infotainment system :

Switching on main beam control
• Switch on the ignition and turn the light switch to position

.

• Tap the turn signal and main beam lever forwards out of the basic position.
When the main-beam control is switched on, the indicator lamp

is shown on the instrument

cluster display.

Switching off main beam control
• Pull back the turn signal and main beam lever.
• OR: turn the light switch to a position that is not

.

• OR: switch off the ignition.
• OR: push the turn signal and main beam lever forwards to switch on the manual main beam.

Advanced main-beam control (Dynamic Light Assist)
Advanced main-beam control provides maximum illumination for the road and the surrounding area.
At the same time, it prevents vehicles in front or oncoming vehicles from being dazzled. The system
uses a camera to detect other road users and their distance from your vehicle and covers part of
the headlights appropriately. If the system can no longer prevent other road users from being
dazzled, the main beams are switched off automatically.

System limits
The main beam must be switched off manually under the following conditions because it is not
switched off in time or not switched off at all by the main beam control:
• In poorly lit streets where there are highly-reflective signs.
• Other road users with insufficient lighting facilities, such as pedestrians, cyclists.
• In tight bends, brows of hills or depressions in the land or half-hidden oncoming traffic.
• With oncoming traffic on streets with a central barrier where the driver can see clearly over the
central barrier e.g. truck drivers.
• In fog, snow or heavy rain.
• In dusty or sandy areas.
• Damage to the windscreen in the camera's vision field.
• If the viewing field of the camera is misted up, dirty, covered by a sticker, snow or ice.
• If the camera is broken or the power supply is interrupted.

WARNING
Do not let the extra convenience afforded by main beam control tempt you into taking any
risks when driving – this can cause accidents. The system is not a substitute for the full
concentration of the driver.
• Always check the lights yourself and adjust them to the prevailing conditions for lights,
vision and road traffic.
• The main beam control may not be able to recognise all driving situations correctly and
may not work properly in certain situations.
• If the camera's field of view is dirty, covered or damaged, the function of the main
beam control may be impaired. This also applies if changes are made to the vehicle's
lighting system, for example if additional headlights are fitted.

NOTICE
Please observe the following points in order to avoid impairing the proper function of the
system:
• Regularly clean the camera's field of view, and keep it free from snow and ice.
• Do not cover the camera's field of view.
• Regularly check the area of the windscreen that is in the camera's field of view for
damage.

Light-emitting objects in the camera's field of operation, e.g. mobile navigation devices, could
impair the functions of the main-beam control system (Light Assist).

Parking light
Switching the parking lights on and off

Fig. 99 On left of the steering column: turn signal and main beam lever.

Parking lights on one side
When the parking lights are switched on, the headlight with side light and parts of the tail light
cluster on the corresponding side of the vehicle light up.
• Switch off the ignition.
• Move the turn signal and main beam lever from the centre position to the following position:
Right-hand parking light is switched on.
Left-hand parking light is switched on.
• Return the turn signal and main beam lever to the basic position in order to switch off the
parking lights.
The parking light only lights up when the ignition is switched off and if the turn signal and main
beam lever was in the central position before being operated.

Continuous parking light on both sides of the vehicle
Both headlights light up with side lights as well as parts of the tail light clusters if continuous parking
light on both sides of the vehicle is switched on:
• With the ignition on, turn the light switch to the position

.

• Switch off the ignition.
• Lock the vehicle from outside.

Automatic switch-off for side lights and parking lights
The side lights and parking lights drain the 12-volt vehicle battery when switched on. In order to
ensure that the engine can be started, the side lights and parking lights are automatically switched
off when the charge level of the 12 V vehicle battery is so low that there is a risk of no longer being
able to restart the vehicle. Switch-off takes place at the earliest after the side and parking lights
have been switched on for two hours.
The side lights and parking lights will not switch off automatically if there is insufficient battery
capacity for them to remain switched on for two hours. In this case, the side lights and parking lights
will remain switched on until the 12-volt vehicle battery is fully discharged. It will no longer be
possible to restart the engine ⇒

.

WARNING
Accidents and serious injuries can occur if the vehicle is parked without sufficient
illumination, as other road users might have difficulty seeing the vehicle, or may not see it
at all.
• Always park the vehicle securely and with sufficient lighting. Observe any applicable
local legislation.
• If the vehicle lighting is required for several hours, switch on the right or left parking
light if possible. The illumination time of the one-sided parking light is generally double
that of the continuous parking light on both sides.

Coming Home and Leaving Home function (orientation lighting)
The Coming home and Leaving home functions illuminate the area directly next to the vehicle when
getting into and leaving the vehicle in darkness.

m/k/a995MK Not in China: the Coming Home function is switched on manually. However,
the Leaving Home function is controlled automatically by a rain/light sensor.

m/k/a995MK Only in China: the Coming Home and Leaving Home function is controlled
automatically by a rain/light sensor.
The switch-off delay can be set and the function can also be activated and deactivated in
the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system in the

Infotainment system:

Switching on the Coming Home function
m/k/a999MK Not in China

• Switch off the ignition.
• Operate the headlight flasher for approximately one second.
The Coming Home lighting is switched on when the driver door is opened. The switch-off delay
starts when the last vehicle door or the boot lid has been closed.

Switching on the Coming Home function
m/k/a999MK Only in China

• Switch off the ignition.
The Coming Home lighting is switched on when the light switch is in position

and the

rain/light sensor detects that it is dark.
The switch-off delay starts when the last vehicle door or the boot lid has been closed.

Switching off the Coming home function
• Automatically after the set switch-off delay has elapsed.
• OR: automatically if a vehicle door or the boot lid is still open approximately 30 seconds after
switching on.
• OR: turn light switch to position

.

• OR: switch on the ignition.

Switching on the Leaving home function
• Unlock the vehicle when the light switch is in position

and the rain/light sensor detects

that it is dark.

Switching off the Leaving home function
• Automatically after the switch-off delay.
• OR: lock the vehicle.
• OR: turn light switch to position

.

• OR: switch on the ignition.
Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Headlights
Headlight range control

Fig. 100 Next to steering wheel: headlight range control ①.

Headlight range control can be used to adjust the light cone in the dipped beam to the vehicle load
level. This gives the driver the best visibility possible and means that oncoming traffic will not be
dazzled ⇒

.

Depending on the equipment in the vehicle, the headlight range can be adjusted with the control

⇒ Fig. 100 or in the Vehicle settings ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system
menu in the Infotainment system.
• Turn the control ⇒ Fig. 100 ① or the slide control in the Infotainment system to the necessary
position (example of the vehicle's load level):

Setting in the
Infotainment
system

Setting with

a)

Setting with

the control

the control

with sports

a)

running gear
Front seats occupied and luggage compartment
empty.

All seats occupied and luggage compartment
empty.
,

All seats occupied and luggage compartment
fully loaded. Towing a trailer with a low drawbar

,

load ⇒ Trailer towing .
Only the driver seat is occupied and the luggage
compartment is fully loaded. Towing a trailer
with maximum drawbar load ⇒ Trailer towing .

Dynamic headlight range control
The headlight range cannot be adjusted manually if the vehicle has dynamic headlight range
control. The headlight range is automatically adapted to suit the vehicle load level as soon as the
headlights are switched on ⇒

.

WARNING
Heavy objects in the vehicle can cause the headlights to dazzle and distract other road
users. This can lead to accidents and serious injuries.
• The light cone should always be adjusted to the load level of the vehicle to ensure that
other road users are not dazzled.

WARNING
Failure or malfunction in the dynamic headlight range control can cause the headlights to
dazzle or distract other road users. This can lead to accidents and serious injuries.
• The headlight range control should be checked by a qualified workshop as soon as
possible.

a)

If you have different loads, you can select a position between the settings.

Switching over headlights for driving abroad (travel mode)
If you have to drive a right-hand drive vehicle in a left-hand drive country, or vice versa, the
asymmetric dipped beam headlights may dazzle oncoming traffic. Therefore the headlights need to
be switched over when you travel to these countries.
On vehicles with advanced main-beam control, the alignment of the headlights can be adjusted in
the Infotainment system in the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the

Infotainment system :
The function of the dynamic cornering light and advanced main-beam control is deactivated once
travel mode is activated. The main beam is then only switched on and off automatically.

Travel mode may only be used for a short period. Please contact a qualified workshop for a
permanent alteration. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Troubleshooting
Turn signal
Left or right turn signals. The indicator lamp will flash twice as fast if one of the turn signals
on the vehicle is not working. Check the exterior lighting.

Does not apply in China and

Japan: trailer turn signal. The indicator lamp goes out if a trailer turn signal or all trailer lights stop
working. Check trailer lights.

Vehicle lighting
Vehicle lighting defective, in full or in part. Check the exterior lighting and change the
appropriate bulb as required ⇒ Changing bulbs . If all of the bulbs are in working order, go to a
qualified workshop.

Cornering light
The dynamic cornering light does not work when travel mode ⇒ Switching over headlights for
driving abroad (travel mode) is activated.
In vehicles with driving profile selection, the selected driving profile can affect the swivelling motion
of the lights. For example, the dynamic cornering light is deactivated in the Eco driving profile

⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .
A corresponding display appears in the instrument cluster if there is a fault in the dynamic cornering
light. Go to a qualified workshop.

Advanced main-beam control
Advanced main-beam control will respond in the same way as the normal main-beam control and
switch main beam on or off automatically in the following situations:

• If the dynamic cornering light has been deactivated.
• If travel mode is activated ⇒ Switching over headlights for driving abroad (travel mode) .
• When the Eco driving profile is selected in vehicles with driving profile selection ⇒ Driving
profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .

Interior lighting
Instrument and switch lighting
The brightness of the instrument and switch lighting and the basic brightness level of the Head-up
Display ⇒ Instrument cluster can be adjusted in the Infotainment system in
the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

The brightness setting is automatically adjusted to the changing light conditions in the vehicle.
When the light switch is in position

, a sensor will switch the dipped beam and the lighting

in the instruments and switches on and off automatically depending on the ambient brightness
level.

When the light is switched off and the ignition switched on, the dash panel lighting (indicators
and scales) is switched on. As the ambient light becomes lower, the lighting of these scales is
automatically reduced and may be switched off entirely. This function is intended to remind the
driver to switch on the dipped beam in good time, i.e. when driving through tunnels.

Interior lights, reading lights, background lighting
Press the corresponding button:
Switches the front interior lights on or off.

Switches the rear interior lights on or off.

The interior lights are switched on automatically when the vehicle is unlocked, a door is
opened or the vehicle key is removed from the ignition lock.

Switches the reading lights on or

off.

Stowage compartment and luggage compartment lights
A light will be switched on and off automatically when the stowage compartment on the front
passenger side, or the boot lid, is opened or closed.

Background lighting
Depending on the equipment level, the background lighting provides indirect light in the various
areas of the vehicle interior.
The footwell and, where applicable, the closed blind of the glass roof may also be illuminated.
The brightness of the background lighting can be adjusted in the Infotainment system in
the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

The lights go out when the vehicle is locked or after a delay of a few minutes when the
vehicle key is removed from the ignition lock. This prevents the 12-volt battery from discharging.
Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Visibility
Wipers
Operating the wiper lever

Fig. 101 On the steering column, right: operating the front windscreen wipers.

Fig. 102 On the left of the steering column: operating the rear window wiper.

The windscreen wipers will only function when the ignition is switched on and the bonnet and boot
lid are closed.
Move the windscreen wiper lever to the desired position ⇒

:

Wipers switched off.
Interval wipe for the windscreen or rain/light sensor mode. The interval wipe for the
windscreen depends on the speed of the vehicle. The wipers will wipe more frequently as the
vehicle moves faster.
Slow wipe.
Fast wipe.
x Flick wipe – wipes briefly. Push and hold the lever down for longer to wipe more quickly.
Pulling the lever activates the wash and wipe system for cleaning the windscreen. The
Climatronic will switch to air recirculation mode for approximately 30 seconds to prevent the
smell of the windscreen washer fluid from entering the vehicle interior.
Use the switch to set the interval lengths (vehicles without a rain/light sensor) or
adjust the sensitivity of the rain/light sensor.
Interval wipe for the rear window. The windscreen wiper will wipe the window
approximately every 6 seconds.
Pushing the lever activates the wash and wipe system for cleaning the rear window.

WARNING
Without adequate anti-freeze, the washer fluid can freeze on the windscreen and obscure
your view.
• In winter temperatures, the windscreen washer system should only be used when
adequate frost protection has been added.
• Never use the windscreen washer system at winter temperatures before the
windscreen has been heated by the ventilation system or the windscreen heating. This
could lead to the anti-freeze mixture freezing on the windscreen and restrict the
driver's vision.

WARNING
Worn or dirty windscreen wiper blades reduce visibility and increase the risk of accidents
and severe injuries.
• Always change wiper blades if they are damaged or worn and no longer clean the
windows properly ⇒ Wiper blades .

NOTICE
Before setting off and before switching on the ignition, always check the following to avoid
damage to the windows, wiper blades and wiper motor:
• The wiper lever is located in the basic position.
• Snow and ice have been removed from the wiper blades and windows.
• Wiper blades that have become frozen onto the glass have been carefully loosened.
Volkswagen recommends using a de-icer spray for this.

NOTICE
Do not switch on the wipers when the windscreen is dry. Using the wipers when the glass
is dry can damage the glass.

When switched on, the wipers will temporarily be switched to the next setting down when the
vehicle is stationary.
Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

When parking the vehicle in cold weather, it may be helpful to leave the windscreen wipers in
the service position to make it easier to loosen the wiper blades ⇒ Wiper blades .

Wiper functions
Automatic activation of the rear window wiper
The rear window wiper is switched on automatically if the front windscreen wipers are switched on
and reverse gear is engaged. The automatic wipe function can be activated and deactivated in the
Infotainment system in the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the

Infotainment system :

Heated washer jets
The heating defrosts frozen washer jets. The heating output is regulated automatically when the
ignition is switched on depending on the ambient temperature. Only the jets are heated and not the
hoses carrying the washer fluid.

Headlight washer system
The headlight washer system cleans the headlight lenses and only works when the vehicle lighting
is switched on.
Once the ignition has been switched on, the headlights will also be washed the first time the wash
and wipe system for the windscreen is used, and every tenth time thereafter. Hardened dirt, such
as insect remains, should be removed from the headlight lens at regular intervals.
In winter, you should remove any snow from the headlight washer system covers in the bumper
prior to use to keep the system in working order. Remove any ice with a de-icer spray.

Rain/light sensor

Fig. 103 On the right of the steering column: wiper lever.

When the rain/light sensor is activated, it automatically controls the frequency of the wiper intervals,
depending on the intensity of the rain.

Activating and deactivating the rain/light sensor
• Position Ⓐ - the rain/light sensor is deactivated.
• Position Ⓑ - the rain/light sensor is activated, automatic wipe when necessary.
The automatic wipe function can be activated and deactivated in the Infotainment system in
the

Vehicle settings menu ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system :

If the automatic wipe function is deactivated in the Infotainment system, the intervals are set at fixed
levels.

Setting the sensitivity of the rain/light sensor
The sensitivity of the rain/light sensor can be adjusted manually using the switch in the wiper lever

⇒ Fig. 103 ① ⇒

.

• Switch to the right – high sensitivity.
• Switch to the left – low sensitivity.

WARNING
The rain/light sensor cannot always detect every rain shower and activate the windscreen
wipers.
• If necessary, switch on the windscreen wipers manually if the water on the windscreen
restricts the field of vision.

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Troubleshooting
Washer fluid level too low. Fill up the washer fluid reservoir as soon as possible ⇒ Washer
fluid .

Fault in the rain/light sensor. Switch the ignition on and off. If the indicator lamp still lights

up permanently after you switch the ignition back on, seek expert assistance.

Fault in

windscreen wipers. Switch the ignition on and off. If the indicator lamp still lights up permanently
after you switch the ignition back on, seek expert assistance.

Changes in the response of the rain/light sensor
Possible causes for faults and misinterpretations relating to the sensitive surface of the rain/light
sensor ⇒ Vehicle overviews include:
• Damaged wiper blades: a film of water or smears caused by damaged wiper blades can
increase the time the wipers are switched on, can shorten the length of the intervals between
wipes or cause the wipers to run quickly and continuously.
• Insects: insects hitting the windscreen surface can cause the wipers to be activated.
• Salt deposits: in winter, salt deposits on the windscreen can cause the wipers to continue to
wipe the windscreen when it is almost dry.
• Soiling: dry dust, wax, windscreen coatings (lotus effect), or detergent deposits (from an
automatic car wash) can cause the rain/light sensor to become less sensitive and react too
slowly, or prevent it from reacting at all. Clean the sensitive surface of the rain/light sensor

⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior at regular intervals and inspect the wiper blades
for damage.
• Crack in the windscreen: a wipe cycle will be triggered if the rain/light sensor is on when the
windscreen is impacted by a stone. The rain/light sensor will then register the reduction in
sensitivity of the surfaces and adjust accordingly. The size of the crack can affect the way in
which the rain/light sensor activates the wipers.
We recommend that you use an alcohol-based glass cleaner to remove wax and polish.

The wipers will try to wipe away any obstacles that are on the windscreen. The wipers will
stop moving if the obstacle blocks their path. Remove the obstacle and switch the wipers back on
again.

Mirrors
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Interior mirror
⇒ Exterior mirrors
You can use the exterior mirrors and the interior mirror to observe traffic behind you and adjust
driving style accordingly.
For safety reasons it is important that the driver positions the exterior and interior mirrors correctly
before starting a journey ⇒

.

Looking in the exterior mirrors and the interior mirror does not allow the driver to see the entire side
and rear area of the vehicle. The area that cannot be seen is known as the blind spot. There may
be objects and other road users in the blind spot.

WARNING
Adjusting the exterior and interior mirrors while driving may cause the driver to become
distracted. This can lead to accidents and serious injuries.
• Exterior and interior mirrors should only be adjusted when the vehicle is stationary.
• When parking, changing lane, or performing an overtaking or turning manoeuvre,
always pay careful attention to the area around the vehicle as objects and other road
users may be located in the blind spot.
• Always ensure that the mirrors are positioned correctly and that the rear view is not
restricted by ice, snow, condensation or any other objects.

WARNING
If you estimate the distance from traffic behind you incorrectly, you can cause accidents
and serious injuries.
• Curved mirrors (convex or aspheric) enlarge the field of vision and can make objects in
the mirror seem smaller and further away than they actually are.
• Using curved mirrors to estimate the distance from other vehicles behind you when
changing lanes can provide inaccurate results and can lead to accidents and severe
injuries.
• Whenever possible, use the interior mirror to check the exact distance between your
vehicle and following traffic or other objects.
• Ensure that you have a good view to the rear of the vehicle.

WARNING
Automatic anti-dazzle mirrors contain an electrolyte fluid which could leak if the mirror is
broken.
• The leaking electrolyte fluid can cause irritation to the skin, eyes and respiratory
organs, especially in people who suffer from asthma or similar illnesses. Immediately
ensure that there is a sufficient supply of fresh air and get out of the vehicle. If this is
not possible, open all of the windows and doors.
• If the electrolyte fluid gets into the eyes or onto the skin, immediately wash the area
with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes and consult a doctor.
• If the electrolyte fluid gets onto shoes or clothing, wash immediately with plenty of
water for at least 15 minutes. Clean shoes and clothes thoroughly before wearing them
again.
• If the electrolyte fluid is swallowed, immediately rinse the mouth with plenty of water
for at least 15 minutes. Do not induce vomiting unless instructed to do so by a doctor.
Seek medical assistance immediately.

NOTICE
If the glass of an automatic anti-dazzle mirror is broken, electrolyte fluid can leak from the
mirror. This fluid corrodes plastic surfaces. Remove the fluid as soon as possible, e.g.
using a wet sponge.

Interior mirror

Fig. 104 On the windscreen: automatic anti-dazzle interior mirror.

Fig. 105 On the windscreen: manual anti-dazzle interior mirror.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Automatic anti-dazzle interior mirror
When the ignition is turned on, the sensors measure the incident light from the rear ⇒ Fig. 104 ①
and from the front ②.
The interior mirror darkens automatically depending on the measured values.
If the incident light on the sensors is hindered or interrupted, e.g. by a sun blind or other hanging
objects, the automatic anti-dazzle interior mirror will not function or will not function correctly. Mobile
navigation devices attached to the windscreen or near the interior automatic anti-dazzle mirror can
also influence the sensors ⇒

.

The automatic anti-dazzle function will be deactivated in some situations, e.g. when reverse gear is
engaged.

Manual anti-dazzle interior mirror
• Basic position: the lever on the lower part of the mirror is pointing towards the windscreen.
• Pull the lever to the back to select the anti-dazzle function ⇒ Fig. 105 .

WARNING
The illuminated display from a mobile navigation device can lead to functional impairment
of the interior automatic anti-dazzle mirror and cause accidents or serious injuries.
• You may not be able to precisely determine the distance from vehicles travelling
behind you or from other objects if the automatic anti-dazzle function is impaired.

Exterior mirrors

Fig. 106 In the driver door: rotary knob for the exterior mirrors.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Switch on the ignition.
• Turn the rotary knob in the driver door to the desired symbol ⇒ Fig. 106 .
• Press the rotary knob in the direction of the arrows to the front, rear, right or left in order to
adjust the exterior mirror.
Fold exterior mirrors into the body electrically ⇒

.

Switch on the exterior mirror heating.

The exterior mirror heating heats only at ambient temperatures below +20°C (+68°F) and initially
with the highest setting. Heating takes place dependent on the ambient temperature after around
two minutes. Adjust the left-hand exterior mirror. Adjust the right-hand exterior mirror. Neutral
position. The exterior mirror cannot be adjusted and all functions are switched off.

Activating the exterior mirror functions
• Activate the corresponding exterior menu function in the displayed menu.

Synchronised mirror adjustment
The synchronous mirror adjustment function simultaneously adjusts the right exterior mirror when
the left exterior mirror is adjusted.
• Turn the rotary knob to position

.

• Adjust the left-hand exterior mirror. The right-hand exterior mirror will be adjusted at the same
time (synchronised).
• If necessary, correct the settings for the right-hand exterior mirror: move the rotary knob to
position

and adjust the right exterior mirror.

Folding in the exterior mirrors while parking
The exterior mirrors fold in and out automatically when the vehicle is locked and unlocked from
outside. For this purpose, the rotary knob must be in the position

,

,

or

If the rotary knob for the electrically adjustable exterior mirrors is in the position

.
, the exterior

mirrors will remain folded in.

Storing and activating front passenger exterior mirror settings for
reversing
• Select a valid vehicle key to which you wish to assign the setting.
• Unlock the vehicle with this vehicle key.
• Apply the electronic parking brake.
• Switch on the ignition.
• Put the gearbox in neutral position.
• Select reverse gear.
• Adjust the front passenger exterior mirror so that you can see the kerb area, for example.
• The settings for the mirror position will be saved automatically and assigned to the vehicle key.
• Turn the rotary knob for the exterior mirrors to position

.

• Select reverse gear while the ignition is switched on. The right exterior mirror will now adjust
itself to the stored position.
The front passenger exterior mirror will move out of the position saved for reversing when the
vehicle is driven forwards faster than approximately 15 km/h (9 mph) or when the rotary knob is
moved out of position

into another position.

WARNING
Injuries can be sustained if you do not take care when folding the exterior mirrors in and
out.
• Only fold the exterior mirrors in or out when there is no obstacle in the path of the
mirror.
• Always ensure that no fingers are caught between the exterior mirror and the foot of
the mirror when the exterior mirror is moved.

NOTICE
• Always fold in exterior mirrors before using an automatic car wash.
• Do not fold electrically folding exterior mirrors in or out manually as this can damage
the electric motor.

The exterior mirror heating should be switched off when it is no longer needed. Fuel is
otherwise wasted.

In the event of a fault, the electric exterior mirrors can be adjusted by hand by pressing on
the outer edge of the mirror.
Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Protection from the sun
Sun visors

Fig. 107 In the front headliner: sun visor.

Adjustment positions for the driver and front passenger sun visors:
• Folded down over the windscreen.
• Pulled out of the bracket and swung over towards the door ⇒ Fig. 107 Ⓐ.

Illuminated vanity mirror
There is a vanity mirror behind a cover on the inside of the sun visor. When you open the cover

⇒ Fig. 107 Ⓑ, a lamp ⇒ Fig. 107 ① lights up.

WARNING
Driving with the sun visors folded down and the sun blinds pulled out can reduce your
view of the road.
• Sun visors and sun blinds should always be replaced in their holder if they are not
being used.

In certain circumstances, the lamp above the sun visor will go out automatically after a few
minutes. This prevents the 12-volt battery from discharging.

Sun blind in the glass roof

Fig. 108 In the headliner: button for controlling the sun blind.

The electric sun blind works when the ignition is switched on.
When the glass roof is fully tilted, the sun blind is automatically moved to a ventilation position. The
sun blind remains in the ventilation position even after the glass roof has closed.

Opening and closing the sun blind
The buttons ⇒ Fig. 108 ① or ② have two positions. In the first position the sun blind can be
completely or partially opened or closed.
In the second position, the sun blind automatically moves to the final position when the button is
pressed briefly. Press the button again to stop the one-touch function.
• Opening the sun blind: push button ① to position one. One-touch function: push button ①
briefly to position two.
• Closing the sun blind: push button ② to position one. One-touch function: push button ②
briefly to position two.
• Stopping the one-touch function when opening or closing the blind: push button ① or ② again.
The sun blind can be operated several minutes after the ignition has been switched off, provided
that the driver door and front passenger door are not opened.

Roll-back function of the sun blind
The roll-back function can reduce the risk of crush injury when closing the sun blind ⇒

. The

glass roof or sun blind will open again immediately if the sun blind is unable to close because it is
stiff or obstructed.
• Check to see why the sun blind has not closed.
• Try to close the sun blind again.
• The sun blind will open again immediately if it is still unable to close because it is stiff or
obstructed. After opening, the sun blind can be closed again within a short period of time
without the roll-back function.
• If the sun blind still cannot be closed, close it without the roll-back function.

Closing the sun blind without the roll-back function
• Within approximately five seconds of the roll-back function being switched off, press and hold
button ⇒ Fig. 108 ② until the sun blind has closed completely.
• The sun blind will now close without the roll-back function.
• Please go to a qualified workshop if the sun blind still cannot be closed.

WARNING
Closing the sun blind without the roll-back function can cause serious injuries.
• Always close the sun blind carefully.
• Ensure that nobody obstructs the path of the sun blind, especially if the roll-back
function is not active.
• The roll-back function does not prevent fingers or other body parts from being pressed
against the roof frame and sustaining injury.

When the glass roof is open, the electric sun blind can be closed only up to the front edge of
the glass roof.

Heating and air conditioning system
Heating, ventilation and cooling
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Front controls
⇒ Operating the Climatronic system via the Infotainment system
⇒ Rear controls
⇒ Air recirculation mode
⇒ Seat heating
⇒ Steering wheel heating
⇒ Windscreen heating
⇒ Tips and usage notes

The following systems may be installed in the vehicle
The heating and fresh air system warms up and supplies fresh air to the vehicle interior. The
heating and fresh air system does not cool down the vehicle interior.
The manual air conditioning system or Climatronic cools down and dehumidifies the air. It
works most effectively when the windows and the glass roof are closed. If heat has built up in the
vehicle interior, opening the doors and windows can speed up the cooling process.

How the vehicle displays active functions
Lit up LEDs on rotary knobs and buttons indicate that a function has been switched on.

WARNING
Poor visibility through the windows increases the risk of collisions and accidents, which
can cause serious injuries.
• Keep all windows free of ice, snow and misting to ensure good visibility.
• Set the heating, air conditioning and rear window heating controls to prevent the
windows from misting up.
• Only set off once all door windows, the windscreen and the rear window are clear.
• Use air recirculation mode only for short periods. If the cooling system is switched off,
the windows can mist up very quickly in air recirculation mode and reduce visibility
considerably.
• Switch off the air recirculation mode when it is no longer required.

WARNING
Stale air can quickly make the driver tired and affect their concentration, which in turn can
cause collisions, accidents and serious injuries.
• Never switch off the blowers or switch on the air recirculation mode for longer periods
as this prevents fresh air from entering the vehicle interior.

NOTICE
Do not place any food, medicine or any other temperature-sensitive items in front of the
vents. Heat-sensitive food, medicine and other items could be either damaged or rendered
useless.

NOTICE
If the air conditioning system is not working, switch the air conditioning system off
immediately and have it checked by a qualified workshop. This can help to prevent
secondary damage.

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Front controls

Fig. 109 In the upper section of the centre console: controls for the manual air conditioning system.

Fig. 110 In the upper section of the centre console: Climatronic controls.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Some functions and buttons may vary according to the vehicle equipment and the type of system
installed.

Switching off
• Press the

button (vehicles without auxiliary heater).

• Turn the centre rotary control left as far as it will go.
function button in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operating the Climatronic

• Touch the

system via the Infotainment system .

– Infotainment system
• Press the

button to open the Climatronic air conditioning settings in the Infotainment

system ⇒ Operating the Climatronic system via the Infotainment system .

– Synchronising the temperature settings
• Press

to transfer the temperature settings for the driver side to the front passenger

side.

– Automatic mode
The automatic mode ensures constant temperatures in the vehicle interior. The air temperature, air
quantity and air distribution are regulated automatically. Automatic mode switches off if ventilation is
adjusted manually.

– Cooling mode
• Press

to switch cooling mode on or off.

In cooling mode, the air is dehumidified.

– Maximum cooling
m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: turn the left rotary control to position

•

⇒ Fig. 109 . Air recirculation mode is switched on automatically.
m/k/a995MK Climatronic: press the

•

button ⇒ Fig. 110 . Air recirculation

mode is switched on automatically and the Climatronic air distribution is automatically set to
position.

/

– Temperature
m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: turn the left rotary control ⇒ Fig. 109 .

•

m/k/a995MK Climatronic: turn the outer rotary controls ⇒ Fig. 110 to adjust the

•

temperatures for the driver and front passenger sides.
The set temperatures are displayed above the outer rotary controls for Climatronic.

– Seat and steering wheel heating
• Press the buttons

or

to switch the seat heating on and off ⇒ Seat heating .

To operate the seat heating and steering wheel heating at the same time with the button

,

pair the two functions via the air conditioning menu in the Infotainment system ⇒ Switching the
steering wheel heating on or off together with the seat heating (only in vehicles with Climatronic) .

– Immediate heat button for auxiliary heater
• Press the

button to switch the auxiliary heater on and off when the ignition is switched off

⇒ .
The auxiliary heater provides additional heating when the ignition is switched on.

– Residual heat
If the ignition is switched off and the engine is warm, the residual heat from the engine is used to
continue to heat the vehicle interior. The function is switched off after 30 minutes and if the 12-volt
vehicle battery has a low charge level.

– Blower
• Turn the middle rotary control.

No blower speed is displayed in the rotary control when Climatronic is in automatic mode.

– Air recirculation mode
• Press the

button.

Air distribution
– air distribution to the upper body via the vents in the dash panel.
– air distribution to footwell.
– air distribution to the upper body and the footwell.
– air distribution to the windscreen and the footwell.
– air distribution to the windscreen.

|
•

– Defrost function

m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: turn the right rotary control to position

⇒ Fig. 109 .
•

button ⇒ Fig. 110 .

m/k/a995MK Climatronic: press the

m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: in the defrost function, the air recirculation
mode switches off and the air conditioning compressor for the cooling system switches on in order
to dehumidify the air. When the defrost function is switched on, it is not possible to switch the air
1)

recirculation mode on or the air conditioning compressor off .

m/k/a995MK Climatronic: the air is dehumidified and the blower is set to a high speed.

– Windscreen heating
• Press the
• Touch the

button.
function button in the air conditioning menu to switch the windscreen heating

on and off when the engine is running ⇒ Windscreen heating .
The windscreen heating will switch off after a few minutes.

– Rear window heating
• Press the

button to switch the rear window heating on or off while the engine is running.

The rear window heating will switch off after a maximum of 10 minutes.

NOTICE
To prevent damage to the rear window heating system, do not put stickers over the heating
elements on the inside of the window.

1)

In some countries, the air conditioner compressor can be switched off.

Operating the Climatronic system via the Infotainment system
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening the Air conditioning menu
• Press the

button on the control panel.

Display of air conditioning settings
The upper area of the screen shows the current air conditioning settings.
The air conditioning system operating conditions are highlighted in colour:
• Blue: cooling.
• Red: heating.

Adjusting settings
– Switches Climatronic on and off.
– Applies temperature settings of driver's seat to all seats.

– Switches Air Care on and off ⇒ Air Care Climatronic .
– Locks the rear temperature selectors ⇒ Rear controls .
– Opens the auxiliary heater menu ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation .
– Switches windscreen heating on and off ⇒ Windscreen heating .
– Switches steering wheel heating on and off ⇒ Steering wheel heating .
– Switches the seat heating on and off ⇒ Seat heating .

– General settings submenu
Automatic air recirculation – Switches automatic air recirculation mode on and off ⇒ Air
recirculation mode .

Automatic auxiliary heater – Allows or prevents auxiliary heating ⇒ Fuel and emission
control .

Automatic windscreen heating – Switches automatic windscreen heating on and off
⇒ Windscreen heating .

– Submenu for air conditioning settings
– Adjusts the blower speed.
– Switches cooling system on and off.
– Air distribution to the upper body via the vents in the dash panel.
– Air distribution to footwell.
– Air distribution to the windscreen.
– Switches air recirculation mode on and off.

Presettings – submenu for presettings
– Switches automatic mode on.
– Switches maximum cooling output on or off.
– Switches the defrost function on or off.
– Display for manual control of the cooling system.

Air conditioning profiles
Air con. profile – Adjusts the blower speed in

mode.

Rear controls

Fig. 111 In the rear centre console: controls for the rear seats.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Temperature
• Press the

and

⇒ Fig. 111 buttons to set the temperature.

Setting the temperature using the Infotainment system
• Press the

button on the control panel.

• Touch the function button for the temperature for the rear row of seats.
• Touch the

and

function buttons to set the temperature.

The display now shows the set temperature.

– Seat heating
Press the buttons

If the

to switch the seat heating on and off ⇒ Seat heating .

or

function button is activated in the Infotainment system, it is not possible to

operate the rear controls.

Air recirculation mode
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
In air recirculation mode, no outside air enters the vehicle interior.

Manual air recirculation mode
• Press the

button on the control panel to switch manual air recirculation mode on

and off.

Automatic air recirculation mode (Climatronic)
In automatic air recirculation mode, fresh air will enter the vehicle interior. The air recirculation
mode will switch on automatically if the system detects an increase in the concentration of noxious
substances in the outside air. The air recirculation mode will switch off as soon as the level of
noxious substances has returned to normal. The system cannot detect unpleasant odours.
• Press the

button on the control panel.

• Touch function button
• Touch the

.

Automatic air recirculation function button.

Air recirculation mode with Air Care Climatronic
The vehicle is fitted with an allergen filter. When Air Care is activated ⇒ Air Care Climatronic , the
air recirculation mode of the air conditioning system is maximised as far as is permitted by the risk
of window fogging depending on the interior humidity and outside temperature. The air recirculation
mode is automatically regulated and features continuous adjustment in order to prevent fatigue of
the vehicle occupants.

When is the air recirculation mode deactivated?
Air recirculation mode is deactivated in the following situations ⇒
• If the

:

button on the Climatronic control panel is pressed.

• If the air distribution regulator of the manual air conditioning system is turned to

position.

• If the sensor detects that the vehicle's windows might mist up.

WARNING
Stale air can quickly make the driver tired and affect their concentration, which in turn can
cause collisions, accidents and serious injuries.
• Never use the air recirculation mode for an extended period as no fresh air will enter
the vehicle interior.
• If the cooling system is switched off, the windows can mist up very quickly in air
recirculation mode and reduce visibility considerably.
• Switch off the air recirculation mode when it is no longer required.

NOTICE
In vehicles with an air conditioning system, do not smoke when the air recirculation mode
is switched on. The smoke can leave a residue on the evaporator and the dust and pollen
filter with pollution filter insert, producing a lasting unpleasant odour.

When reversing the vehicle or when the wash and wipe system is being used, the air
recirculation mode will switch on to prevent odours from entering the vehicle interior.
•

m/k/a999MK

Climatronic

If the outside temperature is very high, brief activation of manual air recirculation mode helps
to cool the vehicle interior more quickly.

Seat heating
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The seat cushions and backrests can be heated electrically when the ignition is switched on.

Operating the seat heating
• Press the button

or

in the control panel in order to switch the seat heating to

the highest setting.
• Press the

or

button until the desired setting is reached.

• To switch the seat heating off, press the button

or

repeatedly until the LEDs go

out.
If the ignition is turned on again within around 10 minutes, the most recent driver seat temperature
setting is automatically activated.

When is it not advisable to switch on the seat heating?
Do not switch on the seat heating if one of the following conditions applies:
• The seat is not occupied.
• The seat is fitted with a protective cover.
• A child seat is installed on the seat.
• The seat cushion is damp or wet.
• The temperature in the vehicle interior or the outside temperature is above +25°C (77°F).

WARNING
Anyone experiencing reduced sensitivity to pain or temperature due to medication,
paralysis or chronic illness (e.g. diabetes) could sustain burns on the back, buttocks and
legs when using the seat heating. These burns may take a long time to heal or may never
heal fully. Please consult a doctor if you have questions about your own state of health.
• Anyone experiencing reduced sensitivity to pain or temperature should never use the
seat heating.

WARNING
Wet upholstery can cause a fault in the seat heating and increase the risk of burns.
• Ensure that the seat cushion is dry before the seat heating is used.
• Do not sit on the seat when wearing damp or wet clothing.
• Do not set any damp or wet objects or items of clothing on the seat.
• Do not spill any liquids on the seat.

NOTICE
• To avoid damaging the heating elements, do not kneel on the seat or apply sharp
pressure at a single point on the seat cushion and backrest.
• Liquids, sharp objects and insulating materials, such as a protective cover or child
seat, may damage the seat heating.
• If the system starts to produce an odour, switch off the seat heating immediately and
have it checked by a qualified workshop.

To save fuel, only switch on the seat heating for as long as necessary.

Steering wheel heating
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The steering wheel heating works when the engine is running.

Switching steering wheel heating on and off automatically via the
Infotainment system
•

m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: press the
Infotainment system and touch the

•

Vehicle and

m/k/a995MK Climatronic: press the

• Touch the

button on the

function buttons.
button on the control panel.

function button to switch the steering wheel heating on and off.

Switching the steering wheel heating on or off together with the seat
heating (only in vehicles with Climatronic)
• Press the

button on the control panel.

• Touch the
• Touch the

function button.

Steering wheel & seat heating linked function button to pair the steering

wheel heating with the seat heating.
• Press the

button to switch the steering wheel heating on or off with the seat heating.

Selecting a temperature setting (only in vehicles with Climatronic)
• Press the
• Touch the
• Touch the

button on the control panel.
function button.

Setting function button to select a temperature setting.

Three temperature settings are available. The selected setting is saved when the ignition is
switched off. The temperature setting for the steering wheel heating is unrelated to the temperature
setting for the seat heating.

Switch-off conditions
The steering wheel heating will be switched off automatically if one of the following conditions is
met:
• Seat heating for the driver's seat switched off (if

Steering wheel & seat heating linked is active).
• Power consumption too high.
• Fault in steering wheel heating system.

Windscreen heating
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The windscreen heating works when the engine is running.

Manual windscreen heating
•

m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: press the
Infotainment system and touch the

•

m/k/a995MK Climatronic: press the

• Touch the

button on the

Vehicle and Settings function buttons.
button on the control panel.

function button to switch windscreen heating on or off.

The windscreen heating switches itself off depending on the outside temperature or after 8 minutes
at the latest.

Automatic windscreen heating
The windscreen heating switches on automatically if there is a risk of condensation building up on
the windscreen or windows.
• Press the
• Touch the
• Touch the

button on the control panel.
function button in the Infotainment system.

Automatic windscreen heating function button to switch automatic

windscreen heating on or off.
The automatic windscreen heating is also active when the air conditioning system is switched off.

Windscreen heating using the defrost function
The windscreen heating will be switched on when the defrost function is switched on and a sensor
detects that the windscreen may mist up.

Switch-off conditions
The windscreen heating switches itself off if one of the following conditions is met:
• Power consumption too high.
• Fault in air conditioning system.
• Specified time has elapsed.

Tips and usage notes
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following tips and operating information will help you use the system correctly.

Why does the cooling system switch off automatically or cannot be
switched on?
• The engine is not running.
• The blower is switched off.
• The air conditioning system fuse has blown.
• The ambient temperature is lower than approximately +3°C (+38°F).
• The air conditioning compressor of the cooling system has been temporarily switched off
because the engine coolant temperature is too high.
• There is a vehicle fault. The air conditioning system should be checked by a qualified workshop.

Settings for optimal road visibility
• Keep the air intake in front of the windscreen free from ice, snow or leaves to improve the
heating and cooling performance and prevent condensation on the windows ⇒ Vehicle care .
• Do not cover the air vents in the rear of the luggage compartment to allow air to flow through
the vehicle from the front to the rear.
• The maximum heating output and the fastest window defrosting results are achieved when the
coolant has reached its operating temperature.

Recommended settings for the heating and fresh air system or manual air
conditioning system
• Switch off air recirculation mode.
• Set blower to setting

or

.

• Set the temperature selector to the middle position.
• Open and position all vents on the dash panel.
• Turn the air distribution regulator to the desired position.
• Manual air conditioning system: press the

button on the control panel to switch the

cooling system on.

Recommended Climatronic setup
• Press the

button.

• Set the temperature to +22°C (+72°F).
• Open and position the vents on the dash panel.

Air Care Climatronic
The allergen filter of Air Care Climatronic can additionally reduce the amount of pollutants and also
allergens that enter the vehicle interior.
The filters must be changed regularly to avoid impairing the performance of the air conditioning
system. If the vehicle is frequently used in severely polluted air, the filter must be replaced between
service events.
• Press the

button on the control panel.

• Touch the

Air Care function button.

• Touch the

Active function button to switch the Air Care function on or off.

Dust and pollen filter
The dust and pollen filter must be replaced regularly to prevent impaired performance of the manual
air conditioning system. If the vehicle is frequently used in severely polluted air, the filter must be
replaced between service events.

Water under the vehicle
If the humidity and temperature outside the vehicle are high, condensation can drip off the
evaporator in the cooling system and form a pool underneath the vehicle. This is normal and does
not indicate a leak.
If the outside humidity is high and the outside temperature low, condensation may evaporate when
the auxiliary heater is running ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation . If this is the case, steam may
appear underneath the vehicle. This is not a sign that the vehicle is damaged.

Auxiliary heater and ventilation

Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Switching the auxiliary heater and auxiliary ventilation on and off
⇒ Programming the auxiliary heater and auxiliary ventilation
⇒ Remote control

The auxiliary heater and ventilation
system allows the vehicle interior to be
heated in winter and ventilated in
summer. Operation of the system
allows ice, condensation and a thin
covering of snow to be cleared from the
windscreen. The auxiliary heater is
supplied with fuel from the vehicle fuel
tank and can be operated when the
vehicle is stationary with the ignition
switched off. The auxiliary ventilation
system is supplied with power by the
12-volt vehicle battery.

Auxiliary heater exhaust system
The emissions produced by the auxiliary heater are removed via an exhaust pipe fitted underneath
the vehicle. The exhaust pipe must not be blocked by snow, mud or other objects.

WARNING
The fumes from the auxiliary heater contain among other things carbon monoxide, which
is an odourless and colourless poisonous gas. Carbon monoxide can cause people to
lose consciousness. It can also cause death.
• Never start or run the auxiliary heater in unventilated or closed rooms.
• Never programme the auxiliary heater so that it is switched on and run in unventilated
or enclosed spaces.

WARNING
Parts of the auxiliary heater exhaust system become very hot. This can cause fires.
• Park the vehicle so that no part of the exhaust system can come into contact with any
inflammable material underneath the vehicle, e.g. dry grass.

NOTICE
Do not place any food, medicine or any other temperature-sensitive items in front of the
vents. Heat-sensitive food, medicine and other items could be either damaged or rendered
useless.

Switching the auxiliary heater and auxiliary ventilation on and off
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The auxiliary heating can be operated only when the ignition is switched off. If the ignition is
switched on while the auxiliary heater is working, the auxiliary heater continues to run to provide
additional heat.

Switching on the auxiliary heater
• Press the immediate heat button

on the control panel ⇒ Front controls .

• Press the button on the remote control ⇒ Remote control .
• Program a departure time ⇒ Programming the auxiliary heater and auxiliary ventilation .
The auxiliary heater heats up the vehicle interior to a temperature of at least 22°C.
The auxiliary heater will not switch on if the 12-volt vehicle battery has a low charge level or the fuel
tank is empty.

Switching off the auxiliary heater manually
• Press the immediate heat button

on the control panel ⇒ Front controls .

• Press the button on the remote control ⇒ Remote control .
• Touch the

function button in the Infotainment system ⇒ Programming the auxiliary heater

and auxiliary ventilation .

Auxiliary heater switches off automatically
• When the programmed departure time is reached, or after the programmed operating period
has elapsed ⇒ Programming the auxiliary heater and auxiliary ventilation .
• If the indicator lamp

or

lights up (fuel gauge) ⇒ Fuel gauge .

• If the charge level of the 12-volt vehicle battery is too low ⇒ 12-volt vehicle battery .

The auxiliary heater runs on for a short time after it is switched off manually or automatically so that
the remaining fuel in the system can be burnt off.

When the vehicle is at a standstill, the auxiliary heater can be activated up to three times in
succession for the maximum operating duration.
Operating noises can be heard if the auxiliary heater is switched on.

The 12-volt battery will discharge if the auxiliary heater or ventilation is run several times
over an extended period. Drive the vehicle for an appropriate distance in order to recharge the 12volt vehicle battery.
When parked on an incline, the fuel gauge indication (just above the reserve quantity) may
be inaccurate and lead to functional restrictions of the auxiliary heater.
The auxiliary heater may switch on automatically as a supplementary heating measure when
the engine is started at temperatures below +5°C (+41°F). The supplementary heating function is
switched off again automatically after a short time.

Programming the auxiliary heater and auxiliary ventilation
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening the Auxiliary heater menu
The auxiliary heater is programmed in the Infotainment system.

m/k/a997MK Manual air conditioning system

• Press the
• Touch the

button on the Infotainment system.

Vehicle and

function buttons.

m/k/a997MK Climatronic

• Press the

button on the control panel.

• Touch the

function button.

Changing the operating mode
• Open the Auxiliary heater menu.
• Touch the

Heating or Ventilation function buttons to change the operating mode.

At high outside temperatures, the auxiliary ventilation function supplies fresh air to the vehicle
interior and helps prevent a build-up of heat.

Programming the auxiliary heater
Activation is always for one heating or ventilation period only. The departure time must be activated
for every start.
• Before programming, check that the date and time set in the vehicle are correct ⇒ Vehicle
settings menu .
• Open the Auxiliary heater menu.
• Press the

Adjust button.

• Choose one of the memory locations for a
• Touch the

Departure time .

Activate function button.

m/k/a995MK Manual air conditioning system: the programmed departure time determines
the time at which the auxiliary heater or ventilation should switch off. The point at which the heating
or ventilation process starts is determined depending on the programmed operating period.

m/k/a995MK Climatronic: on the basis of the programmed departure time, the vehicle
automatically calculates the start time for heating or ventilation to the currently set temperature
depending on the outside temperature.
• Touch the

Running time function button under Adjust to set the auxiliary heater

running time after the heater is switched on with the immediate heat button
remote control.

or using the

Programming check
If a departure time has been activated, the LED in the immediate heat button

will light up on

the Climatronic control panel for approximately ten seconds after the ignition is switched off.

WARNING
Never programme the auxiliary heating system so that is switched on and run in
unventilated or enclosed spaces. The fumes from the auxiliary heater contain among other
things carbon monoxide, which is an odourless and colourless poisonous gas. Carbon
monoxide can cause people to lose consciousness. It can also cause death.

Remote control

Fig. 112 Auxiliary heater: remote control (left) with battery compartment (right).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching the auxiliary heater on and off using the remote control
m/k/a995MK Switch on: press the

•

button ⇒ Fig. 112 .

The auxiliary heater is switched on when the LED on the remote control lights up green.

m/k/a995MK Switch off: press the

•

button ⇒ Fig. 112 .

The auxiliary heater is switched off when the LED on the remote control lights up red.

LED in the remote control
The LED ⇒ Fig. 112 ② indicates various operating states after you press a button.
Lit up
GreenAuxiliary heater is switched on.RedAuxiliary heater is switched off.
Flashes irregularly
GreenAuxiliary heater disabled: the fuel tank is almost empty, the voltage of the 12-volt vehicle
battery is too low or a malfunction has occurred. Refuel and drive for a sufficiently long time in order
to charge the 12-volt vehicle battery or go to a qualified workshop.
Flashes regularly
Red or greenSwitch-on or switch-off signal not received. Reduce your distance from the vehicle.
Lights up or flashes
OrangeThe button cell (battery) in the remote control is weak. Replace the button cell.

Range
The remote control has a range of several hundred metres when the button cell is fully charged.
• Keep a distance of at least two metres between the remote control and vehicle.
• Avoid obstacles between the remote control and vehicle.
• Hold the remote control with the aerial⇒ Fig. 112① pointing vertically upwards.
• Do not cover the aerial.
Poor weather conditions or a weak button cell will significantly reduce the range.

Replacing the button cell in the remote control
The button cell in the remote control must be replaced if the indicator lamp no longer lights up.
• Insert a suitable object, e.g. a screwdriver, in the recess on the side ⇒ Fig. 112 in the direction
of the arrow.

• Lever open the battery cover in upward direction using the object.
• Push the battery cover slightly in the direction of the arrow.
• Remove the battery cover.
• Remove the button cell.
• Insert a new button cell of the same type, paying attention to the correct polarity.
• Insert the battery in the housing of the remote control.
• Push the battery cover in the opposite direction to the arrow ⇒ Fig. 112 until it engages.

DANGER
Swallowing batteries with a diameter of 20 mm, or other button cells, can result in severe
or even fatal injuries within a very short period of time.
• Always keep the remote control key, key ring with batteries, spare batteries, round
cells and other batteries that are larger than 20 mm out of the reach of children.
• Call for medical help immediately you suspect that someone has swallowed a battery.

NOTICE
• The remote control contains electronic components. Protect the remote control from
moisture, excessive vibration and direct sunlight.
• Unsuitable batteries can damage the remote control. Replace discharged batteries only
with new batteries of the same voltage rating, size and specification.
• Ensure that the battery is fitted the right way round.

Dispose of discharged batteries in accordance with regulations governing the protection of
the environment.
The battery in the remote control may contain perchlorate. Please comply with legislation
regarding disposal.

Driving
Notes on driving
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Pedals
⇒ Gear-change indicator
⇒ Driving economically
⇒ Think Blue. Trainer.
⇒ Information on the brakes
⇒ Driving with a loaded vehicle
⇒ Driving with an open boot lid
⇒ Driving through water on roads
⇒ Running in the engine
⇒ Using the vehicle in other countries and continents
⇒ Troubleshooting

WARNING
Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, medication or narcotics can cause serious
accidents and fatal injuries.
• Alcohol, drugs, medication and narcotics can severely impair perception, reaction
times and driving safety. This could cause you to lose control of the vehicle.

WARNING
Rapid acceleration can cause loss of traction and skidding, particularly on slippery roads.
This can cause you to lose control of the vehicle, which can lead to accidents and serious
injuries.
• Always adjust your driving style in accordance with the flow of traffic.
• The kickdown function or fast acceleration should only be used if the visibility,
weather, road and traffic conditions permit.

Pedals

Fig. 113 In the footwell: pedals in vehicles with a manual gearbox.

Fig. 114 In the footwell: pedals in vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key for ⇒ Fig. 113 and ⇒ Fig. 114 :
Accelerator
Brake pedal

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with manual gearbox: clutch pedal
The operation and freedom of movement of all pedals must never be impaired by objects or floor
mats.
Use only floor mats that leave the pedal area free and can be securely fastened in the footwell.

WARNING
Objects in the driver footwell can hinder pedal operation. This can lead to loss of control
of the vehicle and increase the risk of serious injury.
• Please ensure that all pedals can always be operated without any hindrance.
• The floor mats must always be properly secured in the footwell.
• No additional floor mats or other floor coverings should be placed over the fitted floor
mat.
• Ensure that no objects can enter the driver footwell while the vehicle is in motion.
• If there are any objects in the footwell, remove them when the vehicle is parked.

NOTICE
The pedals must be freely operable at all times. For example, a larger brake pedal travel
will be necessary in order to stop the vehicle if a brake circuit fails. The brake pedal will
have to be depressed further and harder than normal.

Gear-change indicator

Fig. 115 On the instrument cluster display: gear-change indicator.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 115 :
Currently selected gear.
Recommended gear.
The instrument cluster display may, depending on the vehicle's equipment level, indicate which
gear should be selected to reduce fuel consumption while the vehicle is in motion.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox: the selector lever must be in the
Tiptronic position ⇒ Changing gear using Tiptronic .
No recommended gear is indicated if the most suitable gear is already selected. The currently
selected gear is displayed.

Information on cleaning the particulate filter
The engine management system recognises when the particulate filter is becoming saturated and
supports regeneration of the particulate filter by recommending the most suitable gear when driving.
Compared with normal driving, this may mean driving with an increased engine speed ⇒ Particulate
filter .

CAUTION
The gear-change indicator is only designed to assist the driver and cannot replace the
driver's own judgement.
• The driver has full responsibility for selecting the correct gear in all situations (e.g.
when overtaking, driving up and down hills ⇒ Trailer towing and when towing a trailer).

Driving in the correct gear can help to reduce fuel consumption.

Gear-change indicator display goes out when the clutch is depressed in vehicles with a
®

manual gearbox or when Tiptronic position is deselected in vehicles with a DSG dual clutch
gearbox.

Driving economically
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The fuel consumption, pollution and
wear of the engine, brakes and tyres
are reduced by an appropriate driving
style. A few tips are provided below
which will help you protect the
environment and also save money.

Fig. 116 Fuel consumption in litres per 100 km at two different outside temperatures.

Think ahead when driving
The fuel consumption will increase if you do not adopt a steady driving style. Keeping a close eye
on the traffic can help to avoid frequent acceleration and braking. Keeping a sufficient distance from
the vehicle in front will help you anticipate the driving situation.
Use the cruise control system where possible ⇒ Cruise control system (CCS) .
With a gear engaged, allow the vehicle to come to a halt by itself to make use of the engine braking
effect, e.g. when approaching traffic lights.

Using freewheeling
m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox: When the selector lever is in
position D/S and neither the accelerator nor the brake pedal is depressed, the vehicle will roll
(coast) with practically no energy being consumed.
With the engine-off coasting function, the engine is not just disengaged, but is also switched off.
®

®

Driving with DSG dual clutch gearbox ⇒ Driving with DSG dual clutch gearbox .

Change gears in an energy-saving way
Shifting up early at an engine speed of 2,000 rpm will save energy. Do not drive gears to the limit
and avoid high revs.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with manual gearbox: change from first to second gear immediately
after setting off. Change to higher gears rapidly.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox: accelerate slowly and avoid using the
kickdown function.
Gear-change indicator ⇒ Gear-change indicator .
Eco driving profile ⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .

Avoid full throttle
Never fully use the maximum speed of the vehicle. Driving at excessive speeds, e.g. above 130
km/h on the motorway, will increase air resistance and thus the amount of force needed to move
the vehicle.

Reduce idling
Drive off immediately with low revs. If you are stopped for a long period, do not allow the engine to
idle but switch it off, e.g. when in a traffic jam or at a railway crossing.
In vehicles with an activated start/stop system, the engine will switch off automatically when the
vehicle is stopping and when the vehicle is stationary ⇒ Start/stop system .

Refuel with moderation
A full fuel tank increases the weight of the vehicle. A fuel tank that is half to three quarters full is
sufficient for urban journeys in particular.

Avoid short journeys
A cold engine has a very high fuel consumption. The optimum operating temperature is reached
only after driving a few miles. The fuel consumption is above average at very low ambient
temperatures, e.g. in winter ⇒ Fig. 116 . Plan journeys economically and combine short distances.

Carry out regular maintenance
Regular maintenance is an essential prerequisite for economical driving and increases the service
life of the vehicle.

Observe the correct tyre pressures
An inadequate tyre pressure does not just mean greater wear, but also increases the rolling
resistance of the tyres and thus the fuel consumption. Use optimised rolling resistance tyres.
Adjust the tyre pressure according to the vehicle load. Observe the information on the tyre pressure
sticker ⇒ Useful information about wheels and tyres
Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator or Tyre Pressure Monitoring System ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .

Use low viscosity engine oil
Fully synthetic engine oils with a low viscosity decrease frictional resistance in the engine and
spread better and more quickly, especially for cold starts.

Do not drive with unnecessary loads in the vehicle
You can reduce fuel consumption by clearing out the luggage compartment before setting off, for
example by removing empty drink crates or unused child seats.
In order to keep the drag coefficient of the vehicle as low as possible, remove attachments and
add-on parts such as ski, bicycle or roof carriers after use.

Save electrical energy
The alternator is driven by the engine and generates power for convenience consumers such as the
air conditioning system, window heating and ventilation. Saving electrical energy is easy, e.g.:
• At high ambient temperatures, ventilate the car before starting a journey and drive a short
distance with open window. Only then switch on the air conditioning system.
• Switch off convenience systems as soon as they have served their purpose.

WARNING
Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.

Inform yourself about other ways of protecting the environment. Think Blue. is the global
Volkswagen brand for sustainability and environmental friendliness.
Your Volkswagen dealership will gladly provide you with further information on correct
maintenance and replacement parts that are particularly energy-efficient, e.g. new tyres.
®

On vehicles with active cylinder management (ACT ), individual engine cylinders can be
deactivated in driving situations with a low power requirement. When a cylinder is deactivated, no
fuel is injected into that cylinder, which leads to an overall reduction in fuel consumption.

Think Blue. Trainer.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The Think Blue. Trainer analyses and
visualises your driving style and helps
you to drive more economically.

Fig. 117 In the Infotainment system: Think Blue. Trainer.

Key to ⇒ Fig. 117 :
Blue Score:The higher the displayed value on a scale from 0 to 100, the more efficient
your driving style. A blue border symbolises an efficient and constant driving style. A grey
border indicates an inefficient driving style.Touch the display to open the statistics of the last
30 driving minutes Since start.
Acceleration and braking:At a constant speed, two arcs appear in the central area. The
arcs move up and down during acceleration and braking.
History display:The efficiency of the driving style is indicated by the blue bars. The white
bar stores a blue bar approximately every 5 seconds.The larger the bar, the more efficient the
driving style has been.
Driving tips:
speed.

Think ahead when driving.

Gear-change indicator.

Adapt your

Economic driving style.

Fuel consumption:The display shows the average fuel consumption Since start
in l/100 km. A blue border symbolises an efficient and constant driving style. A grey border
indicates an inefficient driving style.Touch the display to open the statistics of the last 30 driving
minutes Since start.
Tips for saving energy:Press the

Think Blue. function button to access additional

tips.

Selecting Think Blue. Trainer.
• Depending on the equipment level, press the

button or function button in the

Infotainment system.
• Touch the

Vehicle , Selection , Think Blue. Trainer. button.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted. Operating the Infotainment
system can distract you from the road.
• Always drive carefully and responsibly.

Information on the brakes
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
New brake pads cannot generate the full braking effect during the first 200 to 300 km (124 to 186
miles) and must first be run in ⇒

. However, you can compensate for the slightly reduced braking

force by applying more pressure to the brake pedal. During the run-in period, the braking
distance is longer when the brakes are depressed fully or during emergency braking than
with that have been fully run in. In the run-in period, the brakes should not be depressed fully and

situations should be avoided that create a heavy load on the brakes, e.g. when driving up close to
the vehicle ahead.
The rate of wear of the brake pads depends to a great extent on the conditions under which the
vehicle is operated and the way in which the vehicle is driven. If the vehicle is used for regular
urban trips, short journeys, and is driven with a sporty driving style, the brake pads must be
regularly checked by a qualified workshop.
When driving with wet brakes, for example after driving through water, after heavy rainfall or after
washing the vehicle, the braking effect may be delayed as the brake discs will be wet, or possibly
iced up (in winter). The brakes must be dried as quickly as possible by careful braking at higher
speed. Please ensure that no following vehicle and no other road user is put at risk as a result of
this action ⇒

.

Any salt layer accumulating on the discs and pads will delay the braking effect and increase the
braking distance. If the brakes on the vehicle have not been applied for a long time on roads that
have been gritted with salt, the layer of salt must be reduced through careful braking ⇒

.

Corrosion on the brake discs and dirt in the brake pads are facilitated through long periods of
inactivity, low mileage and low load levels. If the brake pads have been hardly used, or if they are at
all corroded, Volkswagen recommends that the brake discs and brake pads be cleaned by braking
strongly several times from high speed. Please ensure that no following vehicle and no other road
user is put at risk as a result of this action ⇒

.

Brake servo
The brake servo will only function when the engine is running and reinforces the pressure applied
by the driver on the brake pedal.
If the brake servo is not functioning or the vehicle is being towed, the brake pedal will have to be
depressed more forcefully as the braking distance will be increased due to the lack of assistance for
the brake system ⇒

.

WARNING
Driving with worn brake pads or with a faulty brake system can cause accidents and
serious injuries.
• If the warning lamp

lights up either alone or together with a text message in the

instrument cluster display, go to a qualified workshop immediately to have the brake
pads checked and the worn brake pads replaced.

WARNING
New brake pads will not have the optimal braking effect when first fitted.
• New brake pads cannot generate the full braking effect during the first 300 km (186
miles) and must first be run in. A reduced braking effect can be increased by applying
more pressure to the brake pedal.
• You must drive particularly carefully when driving with new brake pads in order to
reduce the risk of accidents, serious injuries and loss of control of the vehicle.
• Never drive too close to other vehicles when running in new brake pads, and never
create a driving situation that will place a heavy load on the brakes.

WARNING
Overheated brakes reduce the braking effect and considerably increase the braking
distance.
• When driving downhill the brakes are placed under particular strain and become hot
very quickly.
• Before driving down a long, steep gradient, reduce speed and change to a lower gear
(with manual gearboxes or in Tiptronic mode with the DSG dual clutch gearbox). This
will make use of the engine braking effect and relieve the load on the brakes.
• Non-standard or damaged front spoilers could restrict the airflow to the brakes and
cause them to overheat.

WARNING
Wet brakes or brakes coated with ice or road salt react more slowly and require longer
braking distances.
• Carefully apply the brakes to test them.
• Always dry brakes and clean off any coating of ice and salt with a few cautious
applications of the brake when visibility, weather, road and traffic conditions permit.

WARNING
Driving without the brake servo can considerably increase the braking distance and thus
cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Never switch the engine or ignition off while the vehicle is in motion.
• If the brake servo does not function or the vehicle is being towed, the brake pedal will
have to be depressed more forcefully as the braking distance will be increased due to
the lack of assistance for the brake system.

If the front brake pads are tested, the rear brake pads should be tested at the same time.
Regularly check the thickness of the brake pads through the openings in the rims or from the
underside of the vehicle. If necessary, remove the wheels to carry out a comprehensive check.
Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Driving with a loaded vehicle
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
For good vehicle handling when driving a loaded vehicle, please observe the following:
• Stow all items of luggage securely ⇒ Stowing luggage and loads .
• Accelerate particularly cautiously and carefully.
• Avoid sudden braking and driving manoeuvres.
• Brake earlier than in normal driving.
• If applicable, observe the information concerning the roof carrier ⇒ Roof carrier .
• If applicable, observe the information about driving with a trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .

WARNING
Moving loads can severely impair the vehicle's stability and driving safety which could
cause accidents and severe injuries.
• Secure objects properly to prevent them from sliding.
• Use suitable straps when securing heavy objects.
• Engage the rear seat backrests and the adjustable rear bench seat securely.

Driving with an open boot lid
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Driving with an open boot lid is particularly dangerous. All objects and the open boot lid must be
secured properly. Take the appropriate measures to reduce the amount of poisonous exhaust
fumes that could enter into the vehicle.

WARNING
Driving with an unlocked or open boot lid can cause serious injuries.
• Always drive with the boot lid closed.
• Always stow all items in the luggage compartment securely. Loose objects can fall out
of the luggage compartment and injure other road users.
• Always drive carefully and ensure that you think ahead.
• Avoid any abrupt or sudden driving and braking manoeuvres as this could cause the
open boot lid to move unpredictably.
• Any objects protruding from the luggage compartment must be marked to ensure that
they are visible to other road users. Comply with legal regulations.
• If items protrude out of the luggage compartment, never use the boot lid to wedge
them into place or hold them in position.
• If you drive with the boot lid open, you must remove any racks and luggage from the
boot lid.

WARNING
Poisonous exhaust fumes could enter the vehicle interior if the boot lid is open. This could
result in loss of consciousness, carbon monoxide poisoning, serious injury and
accidents.
• You should always drive with the boot lid closed in order to prevent poisonous gases
from entering the vehicle.
• If exceptional circumstances require you to drive with an open boot lid, you must do
the following to reduce the amount of poisonous exhaust fumes that could enter into
the vehicle:
- Close all windows and the glass roof.
- Switch off the air recirculation mode of the heating and fresh air system or
switch off the air conditioning system.
- Open all vents in the dash panel.
- Switch the blowers for the heating and fresh air system, or for the air
conditioning system, to the highest setting.

NOTICE
The vehicle height, and possibly the length, are different when the boot lid is open.

Driving through water on roads
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Please follow these rules to help prevent damage to your vehicle when driving through water, for
example if the road is flooded:
• Check the depth of the water before driving through it. The water level must be no higher than
the lower edge of the vehicle body ⇒

.

• Do not drive faster than walking speed.
• Never stop the vehicle, reverse or switch off the engine while in water.
• Oncoming vehicles will create waves that could increase the water level for your vehicle to such
an extent that it is not safe to drive through the water.
• Always deactivate the start/stop system manually when driving through water ⇒ Start/stop
system .

WARNING
After driving through water, mud, slush etc., the brakes may react slowly and the braking
distance will be increased as the brake discs and pads will be wet, or possibly iced up in
winter.
• You can dry and de-ice the brakes by performing careful braking manoeuvres. Ensure
that you do not endanger any other road users or violate any legal regulations when
doing so.
• Avoid abrupt and sudden braking manoeuvres directly after driving through water.

NOTICE
• If you drive through water, parts of the vehicle, such as the engine, drive train, running
gear and vehicle electrics, could sustain severe damage.
• Never drive through salt water as salt can cause corrosion. Rinse all components that
have been exposed to salt water immediately with fresh water.

Running in the engine
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Any new engine has to be run in during the first 1,500 kilometres. All moving parts have to adapt
themselves to each other. The engine is subject to higher internal friction during the first hours of
operation than later on.
• Do not depress the accelerator fully.
• Do not drive the vehicle at more than 2/3 of the top engine speed.
• Do not drive with a trailer attached ⇒ Trailer towing .
• Increase the driving speed and engine speed gradually.
The style of driving during the first 1,500 kilometres will also affect the engine quality. Even after
this time – and especially with a cold engine – drive the vehicle at moderate speeds in order to
reduce engine wear and to increase the mileage that the engine can cover.
Do not drive at engine speeds that are too low. Always shift down gear if the engine is not running
smoothly.
New tyres ⇒ Wheels and tyres and brake pads ⇒ Notes on driving must be run in carefully.
If the engine is run in gently, its life will be increased and its oil consumption reduced.

Using the vehicle in other countries and continents
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The vehicle has been manufactured specifically for a particular country and complies with the
registration regulations that applied in that country at the time of vehicle production.
If you want to use the vehicle abroad for a short period, all relevant information and instructions
should be followed ⇒ Safety .
If the vehicle is going to be sold in another country or used in another country for an extended
period, the legal requirements applicable in that country must be observed.
In some cases, certain equipment will have to be fitted or removed and functions deactivated. The
service scope and service types could also be affected. This is particularly important if the vehicle is
driven in another climate region for a long period of time.
Because different frequency bands are used in different countries, the factory-fitted Infotainment
system may not work in other countries.

NOTICE
• Volkswagen is not responsible for any vehicle damage caused by low-quality fuel,
inadequate servicing work or lack of Genuine Parts.
• Volkswagen cannot be held responsible if the vehicle does not comply with or only
partly complies with the relevant legal requirements in other countries and continents.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Warning lights and text messages are shown on the instrument cluster display. These warnings
may be accompanied by acoustic signals.
Front brake pads worn. Go to a qualified workshop immediately. All brake pads should be
checked and renewed as necessary.

Malfunction in the brake system
A brake circuit may have failed if you have to reduce speed and the vehicle does not brake as
normal (sudden increase in braking distance). This is indicated by the warning lamp

and in

some cases by a text message. Go to the nearest qualified workshop immediately to have the fault
corrected. Drive at low speed when doing this and anticipate much longer braking distances and an
increase in the pressure required on the pedal.

Starting and stopping the engine
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Ignition lock
⇒ Starter button
⇒ Starting the engine
⇒ Stopping the engine
⇒ Electronic immobiliser
⇒ Troubleshooting

Push-starting or tow-starting
For technical reasons, your vehicle must not be push-started or tow-started. Use jump leads to
start the engine instead ⇒ Jump starting .

WARNING
Switching the engine off while the vehicle is moving makes it more difficult to stop the
vehicle. This can lead to loss of control of the vehicle and to accidents and severe injuries.
• Braking and steering support systems, the airbag system, the belt tensioners and other
items of safety equipment in the vehicle are only active when the engine is running.
• Never switch the engine or ignition off while the vehicle is in motion.

WARNING
The risk of serious injury can be reduced with the engine running or when starting the
engine.
• Never start or run the engine in unventilated or closed rooms. The exhaust fumes
contain carbon monoxide, an odourless and colourless toxic gas. Carbon monoxide
can cause people to lose consciousness. It can also cause death.
• Never start or run the engine if oil, fuel or any other highly flammable fluids are under
or near the vehicle, or are leaking out of the vehicle, e.g. as the result of damage.
• Never leave the vehicle unattended with the engine running, particularly if a gear or
position has been selected. The vehicle could move suddenly or something
unexpected may happen that may cause damage, fire and serious injuries.
• Never use a start booster. Start boosters may explode and cause the engine to
suddenly run at high revs.

WARNING
The components of the exhaust system become very hot. This can cause fires and serious
injuries.
• Never park the vehicle where parts of the exhaust system can come into contact with
inflammable material underneath the vehicle, e.g. undergrowth, leaves, dry grass, spilt
fuel.
• Never apply additional underseal or anti-corrosion coatings to the exhaust pipes,
catalytic converters, heat shields or particulate filter.

Ignition lock

Fig. 118 To the right of the steering wheel: positions of the vehicle key in the ignition lock.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
When there is no vehicle key in the ignition lock, the steering column lock can be activated.
Vehicle key positions ⇒ Fig. 118
Ignition switched off. The vehicle key can be removed.
Ignition switched on. The steering lock can be released. The diesel engine is pre-heated
and the yellow indicator lamp

lights up yellow.

Depress the brake pedal when the indicator lamp

lights up green. Start the engine.

Release the vehicle key as soon as the engine starts. Once released, the vehicle key moves
back to position ⇒ Fig. 118① .

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the vehicle key can lead to accidents or injuries.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle. The engine can
be started and electrical equipment such as the window controls can be operated. This
can cause serious injury.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle when the
vehicle is locked. They could become trapped in the vehicle in an emergency and may
not be able to get themselves to safety. For example, locked vehicles may be subjected
to very high or very low temperatures depending on the season. This can cause
serious injuries and illness or fatalities, especially among small children.
• Never remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock when the vehicle is in motion. The
steering column lock may be activated and you will no longer be able to steer the
vehicle.
• The key bit in the vehicle key needs to be folded out fully and locked in position.
• Only attach light objects weighing under 100 g to the vehicle key.

NOTICE
The 12-volt vehicle battery may run down and prevent the motor from restarting if the
ignition is switched on while the engine is switched off.
• Always switch off the ignition before leaving the vehicle.

m/k/a995MK

Depending on the market, in vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox: If

you cannot remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock when the vehicle is stationary, move the
selector lever to position P. If necessary, press the lock button in the selector lever and then
release it.

Starter button
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The starter button replaces the ignition
lock (Press & Drive).

Fig. 119 In the lower section of the centre console: starter button for starting the engine.

The starter button is used to start the vehicle (Press & Drive).
The vehicle can be activated only if there is a valid vehicle key in the vehicle.
When leaving the vehicle, the electronic steering column lock will be activated when the ignition is
switched off and the driver door is opened ⇒ Steering .

Switching the ignition on and off
Press the starter button once without depressing the brake or clutch pedals ⇒

.

Automatic ignition switch-off
The ignition switches off automatically after a short time if the driver moves away from the vehicle
with the vehicle key when the ignition is switched on. If the dipped beam headlights were switched
on at the time, the side lights will remain switched on for approximately 30 minutes. The side lights
can be switched off manually ⇒ Lights or by locking the vehicle ⇒ Central and manual locking .
Once the vehicle detects that the driver is absent when the engine stop is active, the ignition will
switched off automatically after a certain period of time.

Automatic ignition switch-off in vehicles with a start/stop system
When all the following conditions are fulfilled at the same time, the vehicle ignition will be switched
off automatically when engine stop is active and when the vehicle is stationary:
• The driver removes their seat belt.
• No pedals are depressed.
• The driver door is opened.
If the ignition is deactivated automatically while the dipped beam headlights are switched on

,

the side lights remain switched on for around 30 minutes.
The side lights can be switched off manually or will go off when the vehicle is locked.

Engine restart function
If no valid vehicle key is detected in the vehicle interior once the engine has been switched off, the
engine can be restarted within approximately 5 seconds. A corresponding message appears on the
instrument cluster display.
After this time, the engine cannot be re-started without a valid vehicle key in the vehicle interior.

WARNING
Unintentional vehicle movements can cause serious injury.
• Do not depress the brake or clutch pedal when switching on the ignition as the engine
will then start immediately.

WARNING
Careless or unsupervised use of the vehicle key can lead to accidents or injuries.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle. Children or third
parties could lock the vehicle, start the engine, switch on the ignition or operate
electrical equipment such as the electric windows.

Before leaving the vehicle, always switch off the ignition manually and observe any
information shown in the instrument cluster display.
Leaving the vehicle stationary for long periods with the ignition switched on can discharge
the 12-volt vehicle battery so that the engine can no longer be started.
The engine cannot, for example, be started with the starter button if the button cell in the
vehicle key is weak or flat. In this case, use the emergency start function ⇒ Emergency start
function .

Starting the engine
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with ignition lock: Turn the vehicle key to position ⇒ Fig. 118① .
The ignition is switched on.

•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a starter button: Press the starter button once. The ignition is
switched on.

•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a diesel engine: During the diesel engine preheating phase,
the indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster lights up.

• Depress and hold the brake pedal until the electronic parking brake has been switched off.
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with manual gearbox: fully depress the clutch pedal and hold it
until the engine has been started. Move the gear lever to neutral position.

•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox: move the selector lever to
position P or N.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with ignition lock: Turn the vehicle key to position ⇒ Fig. 118② –

•

do not depress the accelerator. Release the vehicle key once the engine has started.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a starter button: Press the starter button once ⇒ Starter

•

button – do not depress the accelerator. There must be a valid vehicle key in the vehicle before
the engine can be started. Release the starter button once the engine has started.
• If the engine does not start, stop the start procedure and repeat it after approximately one
minute.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with starter button: Jump start the vehicle if necessary

•

⇒ Emergency start function .
• Switch off the electronic parking brake if you wish to pull away.

WARNING
Never leave the engine running if you leave the vehicle unattended, particularly not if a
gear or position has been selected. The vehicle could move suddenly or something
unexpected may happen that may cause damage, fire or serious injuries.

WARNING
Start boosters may explode or suddenly cause the engine to run at high revs.
• Never use a start booster.

NOTICE
• The starter and the engine can be damaged if you attempt to start the engine while the
vehicle is in motion or if the engine is started again immediately after it has been
switched off.
• When the engine is cold, avoid high engine speeds, driving at full throttle and
overloading the engine.
• Do not push-start or tow-start the vehicle. Unburnt fuel can damage the catalytic
converter.

NOTICE
If the engine does not start, never use the starter with a gear selected and the vehicle key
in the ignition lock in position ⇒ Fig. 118② for driving or tow-starting, e.g. when the fuel
tank is empty. This could cause damage to the starter.
• Fill up fuel if necessary ⇒ Fuel types and refuelling or jump start the vehicle ⇒ Jump
starting .
• If the engine does not start, seek expert assistance.

Do not warm up the engine by running it while the vehicle is stationary. Instead, pull off as
soon as there is good visibility through the windows. This helps the engine to reach operating
temperature more quickly and reduces emissions.

Components with a high power consumption are switched off temporarily when the engine is
started.
The engine cannot, for example, be started with the starter button if the cell battery in the
vehicle key is weak or flat. In this case, use the emergency start function ⇒ Emergency start
function .
When starting from cold, the engine may be a little noisy for the first few seconds. This is
quite normal, and no cause for concern.
At outside temperatures of less than +5°C (+41°F), fumes may be detected under a vehicle
with a diesel engine if the fuel-powered supplementary heater is switched on.

Stopping the engine
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Bring the vehicle to a standstill ⇒

.

• Park the vehicle ⇒ Parking .
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with ignition lock: Turn the vehicle key to position ⇒ Fig. 118⓪ in
the ignition lock.

•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a starter button: Press the starter button briefly ⇒ Fig. 119 . If
the engine cannot be switched off, carry out the emergency switch-off procedure ⇒ Emergency
deactivation .

• Observe the instructions in the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster .

Warning before leaving the vehicle
In order to indicate an active ignition when leaving the vehicle, an acoustic warning signal sounds
when opening the driver door and corresponding warning messages appear on the display of the
instrument cluster. The ignition also switches off automatically after a certain period in order to
prevent unintentional discharge of the 12-volt vehicle battery.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox: if the selector lever is not in position P,
an acoustic warning signal will sound when the driver door is opened and the warning
message Please move selector lever to position P. will be shown on the instrument cluster
display. In this way, a warning is given that the vehicle could potentially roll away. The electronic
parking brake is also activated.

WARNING
Never switch off the engine while the vehicle is in motion. This can lead to a loss of
vehicle control, accidents and serious injuries.
• The airbags and belt tensioners will not work if the ignition is switched off.
• The brake servo will not work when the engine is switched off. More force is required
on the brake pedal to stop the vehicle.
• The power steering will not function if the engine is switched off, and more force will
be required to steer the vehicle.
• If the vehicle key is removed from the ignition, the steering lock can activate and you
will no longer be able to steer the vehicle.

NOTICE
If the vehicle has been driven at high load for a long period, the engine can overheat when
it is switched off. In order to avoid damage to the engine, allow the engine to run in neutral
position for approximately 2 minutes before switching it off.

After the engine is switched off, the radiator fan in the engine compartment may run on for
some minutes, even if the ignition is switched off or the vehicle key has been removed. The radiator
fan will switch itself off automatically.

Electronic immobiliser
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The immobiliser helps to prevent the engine from being started and driven with an unauthorised
vehicle key.
There is a chip in the key. This is used to automatically deactivate the immobiliser when a valid
vehicle key is inserted into the ignition lock.
The electronic immobiliser is automatically activated when the vehicle key is removed from the
ignition lock. In vehicles with keyless locking and starting system Keyless Access, the vehicle key
must be outside the vehicle ⇒ Central and manual locking .
The engine can only be started using a genuine Volkswagen vehicle key with the correct code.
Coded vehicle keys are available from a Volkswagen dealership ⇒ Vehicle key set .

The vehicle cannot be operated properly if you do not have a genuine Volkswagen key.

Troubleshooting

Fig. 120 On the right of the steering column: emergency start function in vehicles with the Keyless
Access locking and starting system.

First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Warning and indicator lamps in the instrument cluster
Warning and indicator lamps light up
Fault in engine management system. The engine should be checked by a qualified workshop
as soon as possible.

Risk of engine overheating. The engine speed will be automatically

restricted. The engine speed is shown on the instrument cluster display. The engine speed control
is lifted when the engine is no longer in a critical temperature range and the foot is taken off the
accelerator.

and

Engine speed limitation is initiated due to a fault in the engine

management system. Make sure that you do not exceed the displayed engine speed. The engine
should be checked by a qualified workshop as soon as possible.
the engine checked by a qualified workshop.

Exhaust system fault. Have

Particulate filter has become saturated with
®

soot. Drive in fourth gear (manual gearbox) or in selector lever position D (DSG dual clutch
gearbox) at a speed of at least 70 km/h (44 mph) for approximately 15 minutes. Observe the valid
speed limits. Go to the nearest qualified workshop if the indicator lamp still does not go out.

m/k/a997MK Vehicles with diesel engine

Indicator lamps flash.
Fault in engine management system. The engine should be checked by a qualified workshop
as soon as possible.

Engine management system has detected misfiring, which damages the

catalytic converter. Reduce speed immediately and drive carefully to the nearest qualified
workshop. Have the engine checked.

Unauthorised vehicle keys
If a non-authorised vehicle key has been inserted in the ignition lock it can be removed as follows:

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox: press the lock button in the

•

selector lever and release. Pull the vehicle key out of the ignition lock.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with a manual gearbox: remove the vehicle key from the ignition

•
lock.

Emergency start function
Use the emergency start function if no valid vehicle key is detected in the vehicle interior. A
corresponding display will appear in the instrument cluster. This could be the case, for example, if
the button cell in the vehicle key is weak or discharged:
• Depress and hold the brake pedal.
• Hold the vehicle key to the right of the steering column trim directly after pressing the starter
button ⇒ Fig. 120 .
• The ignition is switched on automatically, and in some cases the engine is started.

Emergency deactivation
If the engine cannot be switched off by pressing the starter button briefly, an emergency switch-off
procedure is required:
• Press the starter button twice within a few seconds or press and hold once.
• The engine switches off automatically ⇒

.

Immobiliser malfunction
A message will be displayed in the instrument cluster if an unauthorised vehicle key is used or there
is a fault in the system. The engine cannot be started. Use an authorised vehicle key or seek expert
assistance.

Start/stop system

Fig. 121 In the lower part of the centre console: button for the start/stop system.

The start/stop system automatically switches the engine off when the vehicle is coming to a stop
and when stationary. When required, the engine restarts automatically.

Switching on start/stop
The function is automatically activated every time the ignition is switched on. The instrument cluster
display will show information about the current status.
®

Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox may be equipped with a start/stop system with engine-off
coasting function. The engine-off coasting function is deactivated and activated together with the
start/stop system.
Further information regarding start/stop mode is available in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation
and display in the Infotainment system . This information also applies to coasting.

Indicator lamps
If the indicator lamp

is lit, the start/stop system is available and automatic engine stop is active.

If the indicator lamp

is lit, the start/stop system is not available or the start/stop system has

started the engine automatically. Check whether all technical requirements have been fulfilled. If
not, ensure that all technical requirements are met ⇒ Important preconditions for automatic engine
switch-off .
The display on the instrument cluster may show the status of the start/stop system.
In addition, start/stop information on the current status of the start/stop system can be displayed as
required in Infotainment systems with a navigation function. Touch the

i in the start/stop

information to obtain further information on the status.

Vehicles with a manual gearbox
• Disengage the gear and release the clutch pedal when the vehicle is coming to a stop, or when
it is stationary. The engine is stopped.
• Depress the clutch pedal to restart the engine.

Vehicles with DSG

®

dual clutch gearbox

• To stop, press and hold the brake pedal. The engine switches off shortly before the vehicle
reaches a complete standstill or when the vehicle is stationary.
• Take your foot off the brake pedal, or depress the accelerator, to restart the engine.

Important preconditions for automatic engine switch-off
• The driver is wearing their seat belt.
• The driver door is closed.
• The bonnet is closed.
• A minimum engine temperature has been reached.
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with Climatronic: the temperature of the vehicle interior is within
the preset temperature range, and the humidity level is not too high.

• The defrost function of the air conditioning system is not switched on.
• The charge level of the 12-volt vehicle battery is sufficient.
• The temperature of the 12-volt vehicle battery is not too low or too high.
• The vehicle is not on a steep incline.
• The windscreen heating is not switched on.
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox: the steering wheel is not turned
too sharply.

• Reverse gear is not engaged.
• The Park Assist system is not active.
• The Off-road or Off-road Individual driving profile is activated.
When the conditions for automatic engine switch-off are only fulfilled when the vehicle is stationary,
the engine can also switch off subsequently, e.g. by switching off the defrost function.

Conditions for an automatic restart
The engine can start automatically under the following conditions:
• If the temperature inside the vehicle substantially increases or decreases.
• If the vehicle rolls on.
• If the electric voltage of the 12-volt vehicle battery drops.
• If the steering wheel is moved.
As a general rule, the engine always starts again automatically when required by the detected
situation and the vehicle.

Conditions that require a manual engine start
The engine must be started manually under the following conditions:
• If the driver door is opened.
• If the bonnet is opened.

Activating and deactivating the start/stop system manually
in the centre console ⇒ Fig. 121 to deactivate the system. If the

• Press the button

start/stop system has been deactivated, the indicator lamp in the button lights up.
in the centre console again ⇒ Fig. 121 to reactivate the system.

• Press the button

The instrument cluster shows the status of the start/stop system every time the

button is

pressed.
If the start/stop system has switched the engine off, it will start again as soon as the system has
been deactivated manually with the

button.

Always deactivate the start/stop system manually when driving through water.

Start/stop mode when Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is active
The engine will be switched off after the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) has brought the vehicle to a
standstill via an active braking intervention ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox: when the Adaptive Cruise Control
®

(ACC) is active, the DSG dual clutch gearbox can shift into coasting mode and the engine can be
switched off with the engine-off coasting function.
In the following instances, the engine will restart when the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is active:
• If the accelerator is depressed.
• When the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) has resumed speed and automatic distance control.
• If the vehicle ahead has moved on.
• If the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is deactivated and the vehicle driving in front moved away.

Troubleshooting
The engine stop function may be deactivated if the temperature is above around 38°C (100°F).

WARNING
Never switch off the engine or the ignition while the vehicle is in motion. This can lead to a
loss of vehicle control, accidents and serious injuries.
• The airbags and belt tensioners will not work if the ignition is switched off.
• The brake servo will not work when the engine is switched off. That is why more
pressure on the brake pedal is needed to brake the vehicle when the engine is
switched off.
• The power steering will not work when the engine is not running. More power is
needed to steer the vehicle when the engine is switched off.
• When the ignition is switched off, the steering lock may activate and you will no longer
be able to steer the vehicle.
• The start/stop system must be deactivated if work is to be carried out in the engine
compartment.

NOTICE
If the start/stop system is used in very high outside temperatures over a long period, the
12-volt vehicle battery can be damaged.

In some cases, it may be necessary to restart the engine manually. Follow any
corresponding messages on the instrument cluster display.
The start/stop function is activated automatically if the Eco driving profile is selected on
vehicles with driving profile selection ⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .
Always deactivate the start/stop system manually when driving through water.

Manual gearbox: selecting a gear

Fig. 122 Gear shift pattern of a 6-speed manual gearbox.

Select a forward gear
The positions of the individual driving gears are shown on the gearshift lever ⇒ Fig. 122 .
• Fully depress and hold the clutch pedal.
• Move the gear lever to the required position ⇒

.

• Release the clutch to engage.
In some countries, the clutch pedal will have to be depressed fully in order to start the engine.

Selecting reverse gear
• Reverse gear should only be selected when the vehicle is stationary.
• Fully depress and hold the clutch pedal ⇒

.

• Move the gear lever to the neutral position and push down.
• Push the gearshift lever fully to the left and then to the front in the reverse gear position

⇒ Fig. 122Ⓡ .
• Release the clutch to engage.

Shifting down
You should always select the next immediate gear when shifting down a gear whilst the vehicle is in
motion. The engine revs should not be too high when doing this ⇒

. Damage to the clutch and

the gearbox could occur if at high speeds or high engine revs one or more gears are skipped when
shifting down gear, even if the clutch is not released when doing this ⇒

.

Kickdown
On vehicles with speed limiter ⇒ Speed limiter , the kickdown function allows the stored speed limit
to be intentionally exceeded, e.g. when overtaking.
When the accelerator is fully depressed, the speed limiter regulator is temporarily switched off when
the vehicle exceeds the stored speed.
Once the vehicle returns to a speed below the stored speed and the accelerator is no longer fully
depressed, speed limiter regulation becomes active again.
When the Eco driving profile is selected in vehicles with driving profile selection ⇒ Driving profile
selection and 4MOTION Active Control and the accelerator is depressed fully beyond the pressure
point, the engine output is automatically regulated to ensure maximum vehicle acceleration.

Troubleshooting
Clutch does not transmit the entire engine torque. If necessary, remove foot from clutch pedal.
The clutch can overheat, for example if the vehicle pulls off regularly, travels at a crawl for long
periods, or in stop and go traffic. Overheating is indicated by the warning lamp and in some cases
by additional warning lamps and a text message in the instrument cluster display. An acoustic
warning may also be given ⇒

.

Clutch is defective. Drive on carefully! Seek expert

assistance. Failure to do so could result in considerable damage to the clutch.

WARNING
When the engine is running, the vehicle will start to move as soon as a gear is engaged
and the clutch released. This also applies when the electronic park brake has been
switched on.
• Never engage reverse gear while the vehicle is in motion.

WARNING
Shifting gears incorrectly to a lower gear can lead to a loss of control of the vehicle, which
can cause accidents and serious injuries.

NOTICE
Serious damage to the clutch and gearbox can occur if the gear stick on the manual
gearbox is shifted to too low a gear when travelling at high speeds or at high revs. This
also applies if the clutch remains depressed and the gears do not engage.

NOTICE
Please note the following to help avoid damage and premature wear:
• Do not rest your hand on the gear lever when driving. The pressure from your hand is
passed onto the selector forks in the gearbox.
• Ensure that the vehicle has come to a full stop before engaging reverse gear.
• Always fully depress the clutch pedal when changing gear.
• Do not hold the vehicle by riding the clutch on a hill with the engine running.

®

DSG dual clutch gearbox
®

Function of the DSG dual clutch gearbox
Description
®

The vehicle is equipped with a DSG dual clutch gearbox.
®

The DSG dual clutch gearbox is a gearbox which uses dual-clutch technology to change gear
automatically. It uses a dual clutch and two gear train halves to enable very fast gear changes with
®

no loss of torque. The DSG dual clutch gearbox thus combines the performance and economy of a
manual gearbox with the comfort and convenience of a conventional automatic transmission.

Function
When driving, engine power is transferred to the drive axle via the gearbox. In order to change
gears, the power transmission between the engine and the gearbox has to be interrupted. This is
what the clutch is for.
®

With the DSG dual clutch system with its two gear train halves, the engine power is always
connected to one gear train half when driving. Before a gear change, the next higher or lower gear
is already preselected in the load-free second gear train half. The clutch on the non-driven gear is
closed and the other is opened at the same time. This is what makes very fast gear changes
possible.
®

Thanks to its design, the DSG dual clutch gearbox is more efficient than an automatic gearbox.
®

Whereas in an automatic gearbox the torque converter is constantly in use, in the DSG dual clutch
system the clutch can be opened at idling speed, thus saving fuel. Thanks to its efficiency, low
®

weight and intelligent control system, the DSG dual clutch system usually enables fuel
consumption equal to or lower than a manual gearbox.
®

However, just like the manual gearbox, the clutch in the DSG dual clutch gearbox is subject to
®

wear. Regular maintenance is necessary depending on the type of dual clutch gearbox DSG ;
®

further information ⇒ Scope of service . In the event of a fault in one gear train half, the DSG dual
clutch gearbox also allows one gear train half to be deactivated and the journey to be continued
using the other gear train half ⇒ Troubleshooting . If this happens, have the system checked as
soon as possible by a qualified workshop.

®

DSG dual clutch gearbox: selecting a gear

Fig. 123 Left-hand drive vehicles: selector lever for DSG dual clutch gearbox with lock button
(arrow). The controls are mirrored for right-hand drive vehicles

When the ignition is switched on, the selected position or gearbox programme is displayed in the
instrument cluster display.

Instrument cluster display

Selector lever position

Display

P

P

R

R

N

N
E, D or S ⇒ Driving profile selection and

D/S

4MOTION Active Control

Tiptronic gate

M ⇒ Changing gear using Tiptronic

– Parking lock
The drive wheels are locked mechanically. Select only when the vehicle is stationary. To disengage
this selector lever position while the ignition is switched on, depress the brake pedal and press the
lock button in the selector lever.

– Reverse gear
Reverse gear is selected. Select only when the vehicle is stationary.

– Neutral
The gearbox is in the neutral position. No force is transmitted to the wheels and the braking effect
of the engine is not available.

– Standard forward driving position
Position

: Normal programme.

All forward gears are shifted up and down automatically. The timing of the gear shift is determined
by the engine load, your individual driving style and the speed of the vehicle.
Position

: Sport programme.

The forward gears are automatically changed up later and down earlier than in selector lever
position D. This exploits the engine’s full power. The timing of the gear shift is determined by the
engine load, your individual driving style and the speed of the vehicle.

– Changing driving modes
The change between positions D and S is carried out by tapping the selector lever once to the rear
out of selector lever position D/S⇒ Fig. 123 . The selector lever will always return to selector lever
position D/S.
Using this function it is possible to access the Tiptronic option from both the Sport programme S
and from the Normal programme D⇒ Changing gear using Tiptronic .

Selector lever lock
The selector lever lock in selector lever position P or N prevents gears from being engaged
unintentionally, which would cause the vehicle to move.
To release the selector lever lock, switch on the ignition and press the brake pedal. Then press the
lock button in the selector lever handle in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 123 .
The selector lever lock is not engaged if the selector lever is moved quickly through position N, e.g.
when shifting from reverse to D/S. This makes it possible, for instance, to rock the vehicle
backwards and forwards if it is stuck in snow or mud. The selector lever lock engages automatically
if the brake pedal is not depressed and the lever is in position N for more than approximately
1 second and the vehicle is travelling no faster than approximately 5 km/h (3 mph).

WARNING
Selecting the wrong position can cause you to lose control of the vehicle, which can lead
to accidents and serious injuries.
• Never depress the accelerator pedal when selecting a position.
• When the engine is running, the vehicle starts moving as soon as a selector lever
position is engaged and the brake pedal is released.
• Never switch to reverse or selector lever position P while the vehicle is moving.

WARNING
Unintentional vehicle movements can cause serious injury.
• The driver must never leave the driver seat when the engine is running and a position
has been selected. If you have to leave the vehicle while the engine is running, always
switch on the electronic parking brake and move the selector lever to position P.
• If the engine is running and the selector lever is in position D/S or R, the vehicle must
be held on the foot brake. The vehicle will creep forward even when the engine is
idling, as power transmission is even then not fully interrupted.
• Never select reverse gear or selector lever position P when the vehicle is in motion.
• Never leave the vehicle in selector lever position N. The vehicle will roll downhill
irrespective of whether or not the engine is running.

NOTICE
If the electronic parking brake is not switched on when the vehicle is stationary and the
brake pedal is released when the selector lever is in position P, the vehicle may move a
few centimetres forwards or backwards.

If the selector lever is moved accidentally to N when driving, take your foot off the
accelerator. Wait for the engine revs in the neutral position before selecting a position again.

Changing gear using Tiptronic
Tiptronic allows the gears to be shifted
®
up and down manually with a DSG
dual clutch gearbox.

Fig. 124 Selector lever in Tiptronic position (left-hand drive). The controls are mirrored for righthand drive vehicles.

Fig. 125 Steering wheel with paddles for Tiptronic.

The gear that is currently selected will be maintained when the Tiptronic programme is selected.
This remains the case as long as the system does not automatically carry out a change of gear due
to the current driving situation.

Operating Tiptronic with the selector lever
• Push the selector lever from position D/S to the right into the Tiptronic gate.

• Gently push the selector lever forwards ⊕ or back ㊀ to shift gear up or down ⇒ Fig. 124 .
When moving the selector lever in the Tiptronic gate, do not press the lock button on the selector
lever.

Operating Tiptronic with the paddles
• Pull the right paddle ⇒ Fig. 125 towards the steering wheel to change up a gear.
• Pull the left paddle towards the steering wheel to change down a gear.
• To leave Tiptronic mode, pull the right paddle towards the steering wheel for approximately one
second.
Tiptronic is automatically deactivated if the selector paddles are not operated for some time and the
selector lever is not in the Tiptronic gate.

NOTICE
• When accelerating, the gearbox automatically shifts up to the next gear shortly before
the maximum permitted engine speed is reached.
• When shifting down a gear manually, the gearbox will not change gear until the engine
can no longer be overrevved.

®

Driving with DSG dual clutch gearbox
The gearbox changes the forward gears up and down automatically.

Driving down hills
The steeper the gradient, the lower the gear you will need. Lower gears increase the braking effect
of the engine. Never allow the vehicle to roll down mountains or hills in the neutral position N.
• Reduce your speed.
• Push the selector lever from position D/S to the right into the Tiptronic gate ⇒ Changing gear
using Tiptronic .
• Gently push the selector lever to the rear to change down gear.
• OR: shift down using the paddles on the steering wheel ⇒ Changing gear using Tiptronic .

Stopping and pulling away on an uphill gradient
The steeper the uphill gradient, the lower the gear you will need.
If you wish to stop the vehicle or pull away when driving uphill you should use the Auto Hold
function ⇒ Electronic parking brake .
When you stop the vehicle on an incline and the vehicle remains in gear, the vehicle must always
be prevented from rolling by depressing the brake pedal or by applying the electronic parking brake.
The brake pedal or the electronic parking brake should not be released until you pull away ⇒

.

®

Coasting with DSG dual clutch gearbox
In coasting mode, the momentum of the vehicle can be used to save fuel in conjunction with a
foresighted driving style. With the engine-off coasting function, the engine is not just disengaged,
but is also switched off. The engine no longer brakes the vehicle – the vehicle can roll for a longer
distance. The function is available only in the selector lever position D/S and at speeds of
approximately 30 – 130 km/h (18 mph – 80 mph).
An automatic engine start may take place in order to ensure reliable engine restarting and to
guarantee the power supply of the vehicle electrical system.
Triggering coasting
• Select the Eco driving profile from the driving profile selection menu ⇒ Driving profile selection
and 4MOTION Active Control .
• Remove your foot from accelerator pedal. The engine is disengaged and runs in coasting mode.
The vehicle rolls without the braking effect of the engine. The engine is automatically switched
off on vehicles with engine-off coasting function.
Cancelling coasting mode
• Depress the brake pedal briefly.
• OR: depress the accelerator or brake pedal briefly.
• OR: pull a paddle towards the steering wheel.
• OR: press the selector lever to the Tiptronic position.

Kickdown
The kick down function enables maximum acceleration in the selector lever position D/S or in the
Tiptronic position.

If the accelerator pedal is depressed fully, the gearbox will automatically shift to a lower gear,
depending on the speed and engine revs. This will make use of the full vehicle acceleration.
The gearbox does not shift up to the next gear until the engine reaches the maximum engine speed
for the gear.
When the Eco driving profile is selected in vehicles with driving profile selection ⇒ Driving profile
selection and 4MOTION Active Control and the accelerator is depressed fully beyond the pressure
point, the engine output is automatically regulated to ensure maximum vehicle acceleration.

Launch Control Programme
The Launch Control programme gives the vehicle maximum acceleration from a standing start in
vehicles with a DSG

®

dual clutch gearbox.

• Switch off TCS ⇒ Brake support systems .
• Depress and hold the brake pedal with your left foot.
• In selector lever position D/S, select position S. Alternatively, select the Tiptronic position or in
vehicles with driving profile selection select the Sport driving profile ⇒ Driving profile selection
and 4MOTION Active Control .
• With your right foot, depress the accelerator until the engines speed reaches approximately
3,200 rpm.
• Take your left foot off the brake ⇒

. The vehicle will start with maximum acceleration.

• Switch the TCS back on after acceleration.

WARNING
Rapid acceleration can cause loss of traction and skidding, particularly on slippery roads.
This can cause you to lose control of the vehicle, which can lead to accidents and serious
injuries.
• Always adjust your driving style in accordance with the flow of traffic.
• Only use kickdown or fast acceleration if visibility, weather, road and traffic conditions
permit, and other road users are not put at risk due to the acceleration and the driving
style.
• Please note that the driven wheels could start to spin and the vehicle could skid if the
traction control system (TCS) is switched off, especially if the road is slippery.
• Switch the traction control system (TCS) back on after acceleration.
• Only use the launch control programme, if the road and traffic conditions allow for it.
• You should never endanger other road users through the acceleration of your vehicle
or through your driving style.

WARNING
Never ride the brake pedal. Do not overuse the brake pedal. Constant braking will cause
the brakes to overheat. This can considerably reduce the brake effect, increase the
braking distance and, in certain circumstances, cause the brake system to fail completely.

NOTICE
• If you stop the vehicle on an incline, do not attempt to stop it from rolling back by
depressing the accelerator while a position is still selected. The dual clutch gearbox
®

DSG could overheat and be damaged.
• Never allow the vehicle to roll in position N, particularly if the ignition is switched off.
®

The DSG dual clutch gearbox will not be lubricated and could be damaged.
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with Launch Control Programme: accelerating with the
Launch Control programme places heavy strain on all vehicle components. This can
lead to higher rates of wear.

NOTICE
• Never let the brakes rub by applying light pressure to the brake when it is not
necessary to brake. This will increase levels of wear.
• Before driving down a long, steep gradient, reduce your speed and select a suitable
recuperation level. This will make use of the electric drive braking effect and relieve the
load on the brakes. The brakes could otherwise overheat and possibly fail. The brakes
should only be used to slow or stop the vehicle.

Troubleshooting

Fig. 126 Removing the cover of the gearshift gate.

Fig. 127 Unlocking the selector lever lock manually.

Warning and indicator lamps in the instrument cluster
The indicator lamps light up.
Brake pedal not depressed. Fully depress the brake pedal. Also see Adaptive Cruise Control
(ACC) ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .

Do not drive on! Gearbox fault. Allow the gearbox

to cool down in selector lever position P. If the warning lamp does not go out, do not drive on. Seek
professional assistance. Failure to do so could result in considerable damage to the gearbox.
Brake pedal not depressed, e.g. when trying to engage another position with the selector lever. To
select a position, press the brake pedal. See also electronic parking brake ⇒ Electronic parking
brake .
The indicator lamps flash.
The lock button in the selector lever is not engaged. The vehicle cannot drive off. Engage the
selector lever lock ⇒ Selector lever lock .

Troubleshooting for the selector lever lock

®

In rare cases, the selector lever lock may not engage in vehicles with a DSG dual clutch
gearbox. The drive is then deactivated to prevent the vehicle from accidentally pulling away. The
indicator lamp flashes and an information message is also displayed. Use the following procedure
to engage the selector lever lock:
• Depress the foot brake and then release it again.

Unlocking the selector lever lock manually
If the power fails in the vehicle (e.g. if the 12-volt battery is flat) and the vehicle has to be pushed or
towed, the selector lever lock must be released manually. Seek professional assistance.
The manual release mechanism is located under the cover of the gearshift gate.

Removing the cover of the gearshift gate
• Switch on the electronic parking brake. If the electronic parking brake cannot be switched on,
the vehicle will have to be prevented from rolling off using other means.
• Switch off the ignition.
• Carefully pull the cover upwards in the area around the selector lever gaiter with connected
electrical wiring ⇒ Fig. 126 .
• Pull the cover up and over the selector lever ⇒

.

Releasing the selector lever lock manually
Depending on the vehicle equipment, there are two possible manual release mechanism variants.
• Using the flat blade of the screwdriver from the vehicle tool kit, carefully push the release lever
in the direction of the arrow and hold it in this position ⇒ Fig. 126 .
• Press the lock button on the front of the selector lever handle and move the selector lever to
position N.
• After manual release, carefully press the cover onto the centre console while ensuring that the
electrical wires are positioned correctly.
• Using the flat blade of the screwdriver from the vehicle tool kit, carefully push the release lever
in the direction of the arrow and hold it in this position ⇒ Fig. 127 .
• Press the lock button on the front of the selector lever handle and move the selector lever to
position N.

• After manual release, carefully press the cover onto the centre console while ensuring that the
electrical wires are positioned correctly.

Emergency programme
There is a fault in the system if all the displays on the instrument cluster for the selector lever
®

positions have a light background. The DSG dual clutch gearbox is running in an emergency
programme. The vehicle can still be driven in the emergency programme, but only at reduced
speed and not in all gears.
®

In vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox, you may no longer be able to select reverse gear.
®

In all cases you should have the DSG dual clutch gearbox checked by a qualified workshop
immediately.

®

Overheating of the DSG dual clutch gearbox
®

The DSG dual clutch gearbox can become too hot, for example, if the vehicle pulls off
frequently, drives at crawling speed for long periods, or in stop-and-go traffic. Overheating is
indicated by the warning lamp and in some cases by a text message in the instrument cluster
display. A signal tone may also be given. Stop the vehicle and allow the gearbox to cool down ⇒
.

The vehicle does not move forwards or backwards even though a position
has been selected
If the vehicle will not move in the required direction, the system may have selected the position
incorrectly. Depress the brake pedal and reselect the position.
If the vehicle still does not move in the required direction, there is a system fault. Seek expert
assistance and have the system checked.

WARNING
Never move the selector lever out of the position P if the electronic parking brake is not
switched on. Otherwise the vehicle could move unexpectedly if it is stopped on an incline,
which could lead to accidents and serious injuries.

NOTICE
®

The DSG dual clutch gearbox will become damaged if the vehicle is allowed to roll for a
long period of time or at a high speed (for example while being towed) with the selector
lever in position N and the engine switched off.

NOTICE
• If the display indicates that the gearbox is overheating for the first time, the vehicle will
have to be parked safely or driven faster than 20 km/h (12 mph).
• If the text message and signal tone are repeated every ten seconds, the vehicle must be
parked safely immediately and the engine switched off. Allow the gearbox to cool down.
• In order to prevent damage to the gearbox, you should not drive on until the acoustic
warning stops. You should not pull away or drive the vehicle at very low speeds while
the gearbox is overheated.

Downhill speed control
If the vehicle is being held on the Auto Hold function, the green indicator lamp

lights up.

Switch off Auto Hold if necessary ⇒ Auto Hold function .
®

The Hill Descent Control system in vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox helps when braking
and travelling downhill ⇒

. This system uses the braking power of the engine, rather than the

brakes directly.
®

The DSG dual clutch gearbox selects the best gear for the circumstances, depending on the
steepness of the hill and the current speed. The selector lever must be in position D/S. The downhill
speed control is not active in Tiptronic mode.
As the downhill speed control system can shift down only as far as third gear, it may be necessary
to activate the Tiptronic mode when driving down particularly steep inclines. When in Tiptronic
mode, select second or first gear manually in order to make use of the braking effect of the engine
and to relieve the load on the brakes.
The start/stop system is automatically deactivated as long as downhill speed control is active.

Activating downhill speed control automatically:
• If the downhill gradient is greater than approximately 6%.
• AND: if the selector lever is in position D/S.

• In addition, if the cruise control system or Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is switched off:
if the vehicle speed is less than approximately 80 km/h (50 mph) or the brake pedal is
depressed.
• In addition, if the cruise control system or Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is active: if the
stored speed is exceeded.

Deactivating downhill speed control automatically:
• If the downhill gradient becomes less steep.
• OR: if the gearbox shifts up a gear because the engine speed is higher than approximately
4,500 rpm.
• Or in addition if the cruise control system or Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is active: if
the stored speed can be maintained.

WARNING
The intelligent downhill speed control technology cannot overcome the laws of physics,
and functions only within the limits of the system. Never allow the extra convenience
afforded by pull-away assist systems to tempt you into taking any risks when driving.
• Unintentional vehicle movements can cause serious injury.
• The downhill speed control cannot replace the full concentration of the driver.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Downhill speed control cannot hold the vehicle in all hill start situations or brake it
sufficiently on all slopes going downhill (e.g. if the ground is slippery or icy).

WARNING
Always be prepared to brake the vehicle. Accidents and injuries could occur if this is not
ensured.
• The downhill speed control is only a support function and may not be able to brake the
vehicle sufficiently in all situations when driving downhill.
• The vehicle may become faster despite the downhill speed control being in operation.

Hill Descent Control
When Hill Descent Control is active, the indicator lamp
When Hill Descent Control is not active, the indicator lamp

lights up white.
lights up grey. The system is

switched on, but is not regulating.
The Hill Descent Control system automatically brakes all four wheels to limit the speed when driving
forwards and reversing on steep downhill gradients. The wheels will not lock as the anti-lock brake
system remains active. In vehicles with a manual gearbox, Hill Descent Control adjusts the target
speed so that the engine speed does not drop below the idling speed.
If you enter a downhill slope travelling at a speed under 30 km/h (18 mph), the vehicle speed will be
limited to a speed between min. 2 km/h (1 mph) and max. 30 km/h (18 mph). The driver can use the
accelerator pedal and the brakes to alter the speed in this range. The control speed will be set
again as soon as the driver takes their foot off the accelerator or brake pedal.
However, this can work only if the tyres have sufficient grip on the road. Hill Descent Control
cannot work on an icy or slippery slope, for example.
Hill Descent Control is automatically activated if the following conditions are met:
• The engine is running.
• The Off-road driving profile is selected ⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active
Control .
• The speed is under 30 km/h (18 mph) (the

function display is visible on the instrument

cluster display).
• The downhill gradient is at least 10 %.
• You do not brake or accelerate.
The Hill Descent Control function will be deactivated when the downhill gradient is less than 5 %.

WARNING
The intelligent Hill Descent Control technology cannot overcome the laws of physics, and
functions only within the limits of the system. Never allow the extra convenience afforded
by pull-away assist systems to tempt you into taking any risks when driving.
• Unintentional vehicle movements can cause serious injury.
• The Hill Descent Control cannot replace the full concentration of the driver.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• A Hill Descent Control System may not be able to always hold the vehicle on uphill
gradients or brake it sufficiently on all slopes going downhill (e.g. if the ground is
slippery or icy).

WARNING
Always be prepared to brake the vehicle. Accidents and injuries could occur if this is not
ensured.
• The Hill Descent Control system is only a support function and may not be able to
brake the vehicle sufficiently in all situations when driving downhill.
• The vehicle may accelerate despite the Hill Descent Control system.

Steering
Information on steering
The steering should be locked every time you leave the vehicle to make it more difficult for the
vehicle to be stolen.

Steering
The power steering is not hydraulic. It is an electromechanical system. The advantage of this
steering system is that no hydraulic hoses, hydraulic oil, pumps, filter or other parts are required.
The electromechanical system reduces fuel consumption. A hydraulic system requires constant oil
pressure in the system, whereas an electromechanical steering system only needs an energy
supply while steering.
In vehicles with driving profile selection, the selected driving profile can affect the behaviour of the
power steering ⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .

Electronic steering column lock in vehicles with starter button
The steering column will be locked if the driver door is opened and the ignition is switched off. For
this, the vehicle should be stationary and, if necessary, the gear selector lever should be in position
P.
If the ignition is not switched off until after the driver door is opened, the electronic steering column
will only be locked when the vehicle is locked using the vehicle key or the sensor in the door
handle.

Mechanical steering column lock (steering lock) in vehicles with an
ignition lock
The steering column is locked if the vehicle key is removed from the ignition lock when the vehicle
is stationary. Turn the steering wheel slightly until the steering lock clicks into place.
Insert the vehicle key into the ignition lock to unlock the steering lock. Turn the steering wheel
slightly to take the load off the steering lock mechanism. Hold the steering wheel in this position and
turn the ignition on.

Electromechanical steering
The power steering provided by the electromechanical steering system automatically adjusts to the
vehicle speed, steering wheel torque and steering wheel angle. The electromechanical steering
only functions when the engine is running.
You will need considerably more strength than normal to steer the vehicle if the power steering is
reduced or has failed completely.

Counter steering assistance
Counter steering assistance provides the driver with power steering in critical driving situations.
Additional steering power helps the driver when counter steering ⇒

.

Progressive steering
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, progressive steering can adjust the force of the steering
movement in a driving situation. Progressive steering only functions when the engine is running.
In urban driving, smaller steering movements are required when parking, manoeuvring, or turning
sharply.
When driving on country roads or on the motorway, the progressive steering provides a more
sporty, direct steering response, and a dynamic feel.

WARNING
If the power steering is not working, the steering wheel is difficult to turn, which makes it
difficult to steer the vehicle.
• The power steering only functions when the engine is running.
• Never allow the vehicle to roll if the engine is switched off.
• Never remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock when the vehicle is in motion. The
steering column lock may be activated and it will no longer be possible to steer the
vehicle.

WARNING
In conjunction with the ESC, counter steering assistance provides the driver with
assistance when steering in critical driving situations. The driver must steer the vehicle at
all times. Counter steering assistance does not steer the vehicle.

NOTICE
The ignition of the vehicle being towed must be switched on to prevent the steering wheel
from locking, and so that the turn signals, horn, wipers and window washer system can be
used.

Troubleshooting
Warning and indicator lamps in the instrument cluster
The indicator lamps light up.
Do not drive on! Electromechanical steering not functioning. The steering must be
checked by a qualified workshop as soon as possible.

Electromechanical steering function

reduced. The steering must be checked by a qualified workshop as soon as possible. If the yellow
warning lamp remains off after the engine has been restarted and you have driven a short distance,
you do not need to consult a qualified workshop.

The 12-volt battery has been disconnected

and reconnected. Drive a short distance at a speed of 15 – 20 km/h (9 – 12 mph).
The indicator lamps flash.
Steering column twisted. Turn the steering wheel back and forth.

Steering column not

locked or unlocked. Remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock and switch the ignition back on
again. Follow any messages that are on the instrument cluster display. Do not continue your
journey if the steering column remains locked when the ignition is switched on. Seek expert
assistance.

Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active
Control
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Selecting a driving profile (ONROAD)
⇒ Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action Control)
⇒ Adjusting the driving profile to suit your requirements
⇒ Troubleshooting

The driving profile selection contains
factory-defined driving profiles which
have different effects on the vehicle
setup. You can also set your own
vehicle setup by means of an individual
driving profile.
Different driving profiles can be selected depending on the vehicle equipment level. The effect on
the vehicle setup in the individual driving profiles depends on the vehicle equipment.
The settings available depend on the type of drive. Vehicles with a front-wheel drive come with
ONROAD driving profiles ⇒ Selecting a driving profile (ONROAD) , while vehicles with all-wheel

drive come with additional OFFROAD driving profiles ⇒ Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION
Action Control) .
The driving profile can be changed when the vehicle is stationary or while driving ⇒

. After

selecting a driving profile, the vehicle settings (excluding engine settings) are switched to the new
profile mode immediately. When traffic conditions allow, briefly take your foot off the accelerator to
activate the newly selected driving profile for the engine.

WARNING
Setting a driving mode while the vehicle is in motion can distract you from the road and
cause accidents.

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Selecting a driving profile (ONROAD)

Fig. 128 In the lower section of the centre console: driving profile selection button.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Selecting the driving profile
• Switch on the ignition.

⇒ Fig. 128 .

• Press the driving profile selection button
• Touch the

function button in the Infotainment system to display additional information about

the active driving profile.
• Touch the function button for the required driving profile.

⇒ Fig. 128 again to select the next driving profile.

• OR: press the driving profile button

If the Normal driving profile is selected, the LED in the driving profile selection button will remain
switched off.
When the ignition is switched off, the set driving profile and the individual settings will remain
selected.
The driving profiles Sport and Eco will also remain selected after the ignition has been switched
®

off. However, settings for the engine or DSG dual clutch gearbox may switch to the Normal driving
profile when the ignition is switched back on again.
In order to reactivate the sports function, the Sport driving profile must be selected again or the
®

®

selector lever of the DSG dual clutch gearbox must be moved to S⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox .
To reactivate the eco functions, select the Eco driving profile again.

Recommended driving situations for each driving profile
• Eco: switches the vehicle into economical mode and helps the driver to drive the vehicle in a
fuel-efficient manner. Coasting mode is available in the Eco driving profile.
• Comfort: the Comfort driving profile is available only for vehicles with adaptive chassis control
(DCC). The driving profile creates a comfort-based vehicle setup and is suited to poor-quality
sections of road or long motorway journeys, for example.
• Normal: balanced setting, e.g. for everyday use.
• Sport: this setting gives the driver a sporty driving feeling.
• Individual: individual systems can be adjusted to suit personal requirements ⇒ Adjusting the
driving profile to suit your requirements .

Effects of the driving profiles on the vehicle setup
• Adaptive chassis control (DCC)
• Steering
• Powertrain (engine and gearbox)
• Adaptive cruise control (ACC)
• Dynamic cornering light and dynamic main beam control (Dynamic Light Assist)
• Air conditioning system

• Proactive occupant protection system

WARNING
Changing the driving profile can alter the vehicle handling. Never allow the driving profile
selection to tempt you into taking any risks when driving.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.

®

In vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox, the system automatically changes to gear
position S when the Sport driving profile is selected. The system automatically switches to gear
position D when the Eco driving profile is selected. Since coasting is active in the Eco driving
profile, the gearbox programme E is additionally displayed on the instrument cluster display.
The driver can adjust certain vehicle functions irrespective of the selected driving profile. For
example, the driver can switch to gear position S when the Eco driving profile is selected.

Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action Control)

Fig. 129 In the lower section of the centre console: control for the 4MOTION Active Control in
vehicles with all-wheel drive.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 129 :
MODE button: Selects Onroad driving profiles and opens menu in the Infotainment system.
Snow driving profile.
On-road driving profile.
Off-road driving profile.
Off-road Individual driving profile.

Selecting the driving profile
• Switch on the ignition.
• Turn the control for the 4MOTION Active Control until the LED next to the desired driving profile
lights up ⇒ Fig. 129 .
• To switch through the Onroad driving profiles, press the MODE button or press an Onroad
driving profile in the Infotainment system.
• Touch the

function button to display additional information about the active driving mode.

• Touch the function button for the required driving profile in the Infotainment system.
When the ignition is switched off, the set driving profile and the individual settings will remain
selected.
If one of the driving profiles Snow, Off-road or Off-road Individual was the last active profile, the
most recently active On-road driving profile is activated if the ignition remains switched off for a
relatively long period.
The driving profile Sport will also remain selected after the ignition has been switched off. However,
sport functions, e.g., for the engine and gearbox, can be deactivated when switching on the ignition
®

again. To reactivate the sports functions, tip the gearbox selector lever to the rear ⇒ DSG dual
clutch gearbox .

Recommended driving situations for each driving profile
• Snow: The Snow driving profile improves the efficiency of the accelerator on icy or snowy
roads. In addition, the lane holding when cornering and the power in straight driving are also
improved. The dynamic of the ACC Adaptive Cruise Control is restricted. The dynamic
cornering light is adjusted to provide better support in poor visibility. It is not possible to shift into
the S position in the Snow driving profile.
• Off-road: The Off-road driving profile improves the efficiency of the accelerator when driving
off-road. The engine brake is always available and gearshifts can be prevented in critical
situations. In the Off-road driving profile, the Hill Start Assist and Hill Descent Control are
active. The dynamic cornering light is adjusted to provide better support in poor visibility. It is
not possible to shift into the S position in the Off-road driving profile. When the driving profile is
active, the instrument cluster displays the symbol

m/k/s562MK .

• Off-road Individual: Enhanced version of the off-road driving profile that can be adjusted to the
driver's needs ⇒ Adjusting the driving profile to suit your requirements . When the driving profile
is active, the instrument cluster displays the symbol

m/k/s562MK .

• Onroad:The Onroad driving profile enables you to choose between Eco, Comfort, Normal,
Sport and Individual.

WARNING
Changing the driving profile can alter the vehicle handling. Never allow the driving profile
selection to tempt you into taking any risks when driving.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.

Adjusting the driving profile to suit your requirements
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Selecting the Individual driving profile
• Switch on the ignition.
• Switch on the Infotainment system.
• Press the

driving profile selection button or turn the control for 4MOTION Active Control

until the LED next to the Onroad driving profile ⇒ Fig. 129③ lights up.
• Touch the

Change function button to open the Individual menu.

Selecting the Off-road Individual driving profile
• Switch on the ignition.
• Switch on the Infotainment system.
• If necessary, turn the control ⇒ Fig. 129 for the 4MOTION Active Control until the LED next to
the Off-road Individual driving profile ⇒ Fig. 129⑤ lights up.
• If the Off-road Individual driving profile is already selected, press the MODE button on the
control ⇒ Fig. 129 .
• Touch the

Change function button to open the Individual menu.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted. Operating the Infotainment
system can distract you from the road.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Fault in adaptive chassis control (DCC): go to a qualified workshop and have the system checked.
If there is a fault in the adaptive chassis control (DCC), the message Fault: damping control may
be shown on the instrument cluster display.

Off-road display
The off-road display contains digital
instruments that show additional
information about the vehicle and its
surroundings. This makes it possible to
assess the current driving situation
more precisely.

Fig. 130 In the Infotainment system: off-road display.

Opening the off-road display

• Press the

button in the Infotainment system.

• Touch the Vehicle function button.
• Touch the Selection function button.
• Touch the Off-road function button.

Selecting instruments and setting units
The display shows various instruments ⇒ Fig. 130 .
To change instruments, swipe vertically over the display.
The units can be adjusted for some instruments in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and
display in the Infotainment system .

Instruments in the off-road display (depends on the vehicle's equipment):
• Altitude: The altitude function shows the current height above sea level.
• Steering angle display: the steering angle of the vehicle is displayed in the range between 49° and 49°. The value is positive for a left steering angle and negative for a right steering
angle.
• Compass: the compass shows the current driving direction.
• Coolant temperature display: the display corresponds to the temperature display on the
instrument cluster ⇒ Coolant temperature display . At high engine loads and with high outside
temperatures, the needle will move clockwise. This is no cause for concern unless the
indicator lamp in the instrument cluster is lit up or flashing.
• Oil temperature display: the needle is in the middle when the engine has reached operating
temperature. If the needle is in the bottom left area, this means that the engine has not yet
reached its operating temperature. At high engine loads and with high outside temperatures, the
needle will move clockwise. This is no cause for concern unless the

indicator lamp in

the instrument cluster is lit up or flashing ⇒ Engine oil .

Adapting the display areas to the driving situation
The displayed instruments can be selected depending on the driving situation, the ambient
conditions and the off-road conditions:
• Sandy terrain: oil, steering angle and coolant temperature display
• Inclines: steering angle and coolant temperature display, altimeter
• Alpine terrain: steering angle display, altimeter, compass

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted. Operating the Infotainment
system can distract you from the road.
• Always drive carefully and responsibly.

Off-road driving situations
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Safety notes for driving off-road
⇒ Explanation of some technical terms
⇒ Checklist: Before driving off-road
⇒ General rules and driving tips
⇒ Useful accessories for off-road driving
⇒ Changing gear
⇒ Up hill and down dale
⇒ Driving through water
⇒ Off-road driving in snow
⇒ Driving in sand and mud
⇒ Driving in steep terrain
⇒ Traversing a slope
⇒ Driving through ditches
⇒ If your vehicle gets stuck
⇒ After off-road driving
You can also drive four-wheel drive vehicles off-road in addition to normal roads. It is very important
to read the contents of this section before driving off-road.
The vehicle is not built for expeditions.
The examples given in this chapter are an aid for safe off-road driving. However, we cannot predict
whether these guidelines will be valid for all situations that could occur.
The large variety of landscapes and the associated risks and dangers make it impossible to
describe all possible driving situations. The examples are only general guidelines designed to help
you drive off-road safely. It is crucial that you know what to expect when you drive into off-road
terrain you are unfamiliar with. This will enable you to assess potential danger in advance.

The driver can use 4MOTION Active Control to activate a variety of vehicle settings in an all-wheel
drive vehicle as required ⇒ Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action Control) .

Checklist
Before driving for the first time, take the following steps so you can operate and drive the
vehicle safely off-road:
Observe the basic safety notes Safety notes for driving off-road.
Familiarise yourself with the vehicle controls.
Check and adjust the seat position Sitting position and fasten the seat belts Seat belts.
Check distance to steering wheel and adjust Steering.
Always wear suitable, well-fitting shoes that provide good grip for your feet when using the
pedals.

Safety notes for driving off-road
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

WARNING
The intelligent vehicle technology cannot overcome the laws of physics, and functions
only within the limits of the system. Despite input from the ABS, adverse terrain can cause
instability through locked wheels – e.g. if you brake hard when driving on a loose gravel
road. The ESC system will have difficulty stabilising the vehicle in these circumstances.

WARNING
Driving off-road can be dangerous and could cause accidents, serious injury, damage to
the vehicle and also a vehicle breakdown far from any assistance.
• Never select a dangerous route and never take risks that could endanger you and your
passengers. If you cannot drive on or if you are in any doubt about the safety of the
route, turn round and choose another route.
• Even terrain that looks harmless can be difficult and dangerous, and could get you and
your passengers into difficulties. It is preferable to walk over the terrain before driving
over it.
• You should drive particularly carefully and think ahead when driving off-road. If you
drive too fast or if a driving manoeuvre is unsuccessful this could result in serious
injuries and vehicle damage.
• Never drive faster than the current terrain, road conditions, traffic and weather allow.
• Never drive too fast along embankments, ramps or slopes. This could cause the
vehicle to lose contact with the ground. If this happens, you will be unable to steer and
will lose control of the vehicle.
• If the vehicle does lose contact with the ground, always point the front wheels straight
ahead. If the wheels are not pointing straight ahead when the vehicle lands, it could roll
over.
• Terrain might look harmless, but there could be hidden dangers. Potholes, hollows,
ditches, precipices, obstacles, shallows, soft and boggy surfaces are often not
recognisable as such and can be covered either fully or partly by water or grass or
branches lying on the ground. Inspect terrain on foot.

WARNING
Sporty SUVs are subject to a considerably higher risk of rolling over than normal road
passenger vehicles ⇒ Explanation of some technical terms .
• In the event of an accident, vehicle occupants not wearing seat belts are subjected to a
considerably higher risk of fatal injury than those wearing seat belts.
• The vehicle has a higher centre of gravity and is more prone to rolling over than a
normal on-road vehicle which is unsuited for off-road driving.
• Never drive too fast, especially when driving through bends, or carry out any extreme
driving manoeuvres.
• Always adjust your speed and driving style to the terrain.
• Luggage and other items transported on the roof of the vehicle raise the centre of
gravity and will make the vehicle more likely to roll over.

WARNING
The terrain might look harmless, but there could be hidden dangers. Potholes, hollows,
ditches, precipices, obstacles, shallows, soft and boggy surfaces are often not
recognisable as such and can be covered either fully or partly by water or grass or
branches lying on the ground. Driving off-road over such terrain could cause accidents,
serious injury and also a vehicle breakdown.
• Check any unknown sections of the route on foot carefully before driving.
• Never choose an unsafe route or take a risk which could endanger you or your
passengers. If you are in any doubt about the safety of the route, turn back and choose
another route.
• Always adjust your speed and driving to match vehicle load levels and off-road,
visibility and weather conditions.

WARNING
• Always avoid traversing a slope ⇒ Traversing a slope .
• Vehicle occupants should never leave the vehicle via the doors facing down the hill
when parked sideways on a steep hill. The combined centre of gravity of the vehicle
and its payload (vehicle occupants and payload) can shift and cause the vehicle to roll
over and roll down the incline. Always leave the vehicle slowly via the doors which
open up the incline ⇒ Traversing a slope .

WARNING
The cruise control system has been designed for use on surfaced roads only. The cruise
control system is not suitable for use off-road and may even be hazardous. If you use the
cruise control system while driving off-road, you may lose control over the vehicle and
sustain severe injuries.
• Never use the cruise control system when driving off-road.

WARNING
The area monitoring system (Front Assist) was developed for use on paved roads only.
The area monitoring system is not suitable for use off-road and may even be hazardous. If
you use the area monitoring system while driving off-road, you may lose control over the
vehicle and sustain severe injuries.
• Never use the area monitoring system when driving off-road.

WARNING
Driving the vehicle when the fuel level is too low could lead to your vehicle breaking down
off-road, accidents and serious injuries.
• When the fuel level is too low, the fuel supply to the engine could be irregular,
especially when driving up or down hills and inclines.
• The steering, all driver assist systems and brake support systems will not function if
the engine sputters or stops completely due to a lack of fuel or irregular fuel supply.
• Always fill the tank when it is still 1/4 full. This reduces the risk of running out of fuel
and breaking down.

NOTICE
Any rain entering the vehicle when the windows or glass roof are open can soak the
interior equipment and cause damage to the vehicle. Always keep the windows and glass
roof closed when driving off-road.

Explanation of some technical terms

Fig. 131 Illustration: angle of gradient.

Fig. 132 Illustration: angle of tilt.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Centre of gravityThe centre of gravity of a vehicle influences its propensity to roll over. The vehicle
has greater ground clearance for off-road driving, and thus a higher centre of gravity than a normal
vehicle. The high centre of gravity means that there is a greater danger of roll-over when driving.
Always remember this fact when driving and follow the safety tips and warnings given in this
owner's manual.Ground clearanceThis is the vertical distance between the level ground and the
lowest item on the vehicle.Angle of rising gradientThe number of metres in height gained over a
distance of 100 m will be given as a percentage or degree ⇒ Fig. 131 . Indication of gradient that
the vehicle can drive up under its own power. This depends on aspects such as the road surface
and engine power.Tilt angleMaximum angle at which the vehicle may be driven across a slope
without the vehicle toppling over (determined by centre of gravity) ⇒ Fig. 132 .Breakover
angleMaximum permitted angle given in degrees that a vehicle driven at low speed can clear a
ramp without the underbody of the vehicle scraping the ramp.Ramp angleCrossover from the
horizontal level surface to an uphill gradient, or from a downhill gradient back to the level surface.
Angle at which the vehicle underbody will come into contact with the edge of the ramp.Fall lineThis
is the vertical drop route.Torsional flexibilityThe vehicle's torsional flexibility when driving over
objects with just one side of the vehicle.

Checklist: Before driving off-road
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Checklist
To ensure your own safety and the safety of your passengers, observe the following points
before driving off-road:
Obtain sufficient information before driving into off-road terrain with the vehicle.
Do not plan day tours that are too long. Take increased fuel requirements for off-road
driving into account.
Refill tank completely. Fuel consumption is considerably higher off-road.
Check that your tyres are suitable for the off-road journey you have planned.
Recommendation for difficult off-road terrain: always have off-road tyres fitted to your
vehicle.
Check the tyre pressure on all tyres and correct them if necessary. This includes the
temporary spare wheel, if fitted.
Check engine oil level and refill engine oil as necessary. The engine will only be supplied
with engine oil when it is driven on or across a steep slope if the engine oil level is
sufficient.
Completely refill the washer fluid reservoir with water and washer fluid.
Fit the towing eye at the front and rear. It is not always possible to fit a towing eye when
the vehicle is stuck.
Check the vehicle tool kit and add tools according to individual requirements Useful
accessories for off-road driving.
Pack luggage in the vehicle as evenly and as low as possible. Secure all loose items.
Before driving off-road, Volkswagen recommends attending an off-road driving course, particularly if
you have no or very little experience.
A good driving course will teach you how to handle the vehicle in a variety of off-road situations and
how to drive safely in difficult terrain. Driving off-road demands different skills and driving styles in
comparison to driving on roads. The safety of the driver and the vehicle occupants depends on the
driver.

General rules and driving tips
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Code of conduct for off-road driving
A responsible driver should respect the environment when driving off-road. Remember that driving
through undergrowth and on meadows can destroy animal and plant habitats.
• Always stay on designated routes and paths.
• Do not create any unnecessary noise or dust.
• Leave nature as you found it.
• Avoid sensitive natural habitats.

• Give way to drivers coming uphill or who are overtaking.

Driving tips
Special rules apply when driving off-road:
• Never drive off-road alone. Always drive off-road in a team of at least two other off-road
vehicles. Unexpected situations can always occur. We recommend that you carry equipment
you can use for calling for help.
• Stop your vehicle when you reach difficult sections, and walk along the path ahead to
reconnoitre it.
• Drive slowly over the brows of hills so the vehicle does not lose contact with the ground as this
could cause damage, leaving you unable to manoeuvre.
• Drive slowly when the route is difficult. Shift up a gear when on slippery ground and always
keep the vehicle in motion.
• Always look for flat and firm surfaces. The ground is predominantly soft when driving off-road
meaning the tyres could sink into the ground. This will reduce ground clearance and the wading
depth.
• Even when driving at low speeds, always keep your distance from other vehicles. If the first
vehicle suddenly gets stuck, the following vehicle can stop without getting stuck.

NOTICE
• Always ensure that there is enough ground clearance underneath the vehicle. Serious
damage to the underbody could occur if the vehicle is scraped. This damage could
cause the vehicle to break down and thus make it impossible to drive on.
• Do not slip the clutch or rest your foot on the clutch when driving off-road. When
travelling over uneven ground, you could press the clutch by mistake, and lose control
of the vehicle. A slipped clutch also prevents power being transferred from the engine
to the gearbox. Driving with the clutch partially engaged causes premature wear to the
clutch lining.

Useful accessories for off-road driving
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The checklist contains just a few items of equipment that can be very useful for off-road driving. If
you have an instruction manual or fitting instructions for these accessories you should always take
them with you and consult them as necessary when driving off-road.

Checklist
Useful items when driving off-road:
Water, compass, maps and torch with spare batteries.
Winch, tow bar or rope with sufficient strength.
Mobile telephone, shovel, blankets and rubber boots.
Electric air compressor for connection to the 12-volt sockets in the vehicle to inflate the
tyres.
A wooden board approx. 4 cm thick and approx. 1 metre long or an aluminium frame of
similar size: this will help to free a vehicle stuck in the mud and provide a platform for a
vehicle jack.
Snow chains, additional spare wheels, a breakdown set, jack and box spanner.

Changing gear
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The choice of gear depends on the terrain off-road.
Before attempting to drive through difficult terrain it can be helpful to stop and consider which gear
you should select. After some time driving off-road, you will learn which gear to select in conjunction
with the low range and the differential lock for different types of terrain.

Basic points
• With the correct gear selected, the vehicle will normally not have to be braked so much using
the foot brake when driving downhill as the engine braking effect will normally be sufficient.
• You should only depress the accelerator as much as is required. If you accelerate too hard, the
wheels could lose traction and you could lose control of the vehicle.
®

DSG dual clutch gearbox
• Select position D when driving in normal, flat off-road terrain.
• Adjust your speed when driving on soft or slippery ground, and select the highest suitable
position for the Tiptronic.
• If driving through mud, sand, water or hilly terrain, select the Tiptronic in the positions 3 or
®

2⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox .

• Use the Off-road display ⇒ Off-road display .

Up hill and down dale
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Use off-road mode ⇒ Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action Control) .
You should drive through rocky terrain at walking pace.
If you are not able to drive around a stone, drive carefully onto the stone with one front wheel and
drive over it slowly ⇒

.

NOTICE
• You should never drive straight over large obstacles, e.g. boulders or tree stumps, or
drive over such obstacles with one side of the vehicle. Obstacles which require more
ground clearance than is available could damage vehicle components when you drive
over them and thus cause the vehicle to break down.
• Even obstacles that are smaller than the ground clearance selected could come into
contact with the vehicle underbody and thus cause damage which could lead to a
vehicle breakdown. This applies in particular if there is a ditch or soft ground either in
front of or behind the obstacle. This also applies in cases when you drive too quickly
over the obstacle causing the vehicle to bounce.

Escaping engine oil and brake fluid can pollute the environment. Spilt service fluids must be
collected and then disposed of properly and in an environmentally responsible way.

Driving through water
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Driving through flooded terrain could damage the vehicle ⇒ Checklist: Before driving off-road .
You can drive the vehicle carefully through water with a depth reaching to the bottom edge of the
body, for example puddles or shallow water. Never stop in the water, do not drive in reverse, and
never switch off the engine.

WARNING
Strong flowing water can develop enormous power and sweep the vehicle away. This can
lead to very dangerous situations which can cause accidents and serious or even fatal
accidents.
• Never allow the vehicle to stand still in water.
• Water in the engine compartment can cause the vehicle to breakdown in the water.
• Soft ground surface, underwater obstacles and shallows can cause accidents and can
cause the vehicle to breakdown in the water. This could lead to critical situations.

NOTICE
If you drive through water, parts of the vehicle, such as the engine, drive train, running
gear and vehicle electrics, could sustain severe damage.
• When driving through water, always select a section where the ground is solid and
where the depth of the water does not exceed the maximum permitted wading depth of
the vehicle.
• Never drive through salt, salty surfaces or salt water as salt can cause corrosion. Rinse
all components that have been exposed to salt or salt water thoroughly with fresh
water.

Off-road driving in snow
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Fit snow chains to the front wheels only before driving on snow-covered terrain.
Terrain might look harmless, but there could be hidden dangers. This is particularly true of sections
where there are no tyre tracks.

WARNING
Driving through snowy terrain is very dangerous.
• Both shallow and deep potholes, hollows, ditches, precipices, frozen surfaces and
other obstacles can be fully or partially covered by snow.
• Dangers concealed by snow can cause an accident, serious injuries, or cause the
vehicle to break down in extreme weather conditions.
• Always adjust your speed and driving to match vehicle load levels and off-road,
visibility and weather conditions.

Driving in sand and mud
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Always drive at a steady speed through sand or mud and, if you have a manual gearbox, do not
change gear.
• Check whether ESC is active. The indicator lamp

or

in the instrument cluster display

should not light up ⇒ Brake support systems .
• Keep the vehicle moving constantly.
• Use the Off-road driving profile ⇒ Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action Control) .
• Select a suitable gear and remain in this gear until you have reached more solid ground

⇒ Changing gear .
If the tyres have lost their grip, turn the steering wheel back and forth quickly. This can briefly give
the tyres on the front wheels better grip for this ground surface condition.

Driving through sand
Do not under any circumstances reduce the tyre pressure to drive through sand ⇒

. If however

the tyre pressure has been reduced for driving through sand, the correct tyre pressure must always
be reset before driving on. Driving with reduced tyre pressure can lead to a loss of control over the
vehicle and increase the risk of serious and fatal injuries.

Driving through mud
Do not change speed or direction. The tyres can lose their traction when driving through mud. If the
vehicle slides, steer in the direction needed to get the vehicle under control.

WARNING
Driving through mud, sand and slush can be dangerous. The vehicle can slide
uncontrollably. This increases the risk of injury. Always drive carefully through sand, mud
and slush.
• Never choose an unsafe route or take a risk which could endanger you or your
passengers. If you are in any doubt about the safety of the route, turn round and
choose another way.

WARNING
Incorrect tyre pressure can cause severe or even fatal accidents.
• Incorrect tyre pressures will increase the levels of wear on the tyres and will negatively
affect the vehicle's driving response.
• An incorrect tyre pressure can cause overheating, sudden tyre damage including tyre
bursts and ripping of the tread surface and thus to a loss of control over the vehicle.

Driving in steep terrain
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Driving up and down hills
Get out of the vehicle and assess the situation before you attempt to drive up or down a hill:
• Walk along the section and check the firmness of the ground. Look out for obstacles and other
hidden dangers ⇒

.

• Check the section beyond the hill.
• You should not follow the route if it is too steep, uneven or if the ground surface is too loose.
Select another route.
• Drive slowly and at constant speed straight up or down a slope.

• Accelerate only to the speed you need to climb the slope. Too much acceleration can cause the
wheels to spin and lead to a loss of control of the vehicle. Too little acceleration increases the
probability of stalling the engine.
• Never attempt to stop or turn on a slope.
• Avoid allowing the engine to stall.
• Do not change gear or engage the clutch when climbing a slope.
• Use the Off-road display ⇒ Off-road display .

If you cannot continue to drive up a hill
• Never turn the vehicle around on an incline.
• If the engine has stalled, depress the footbrake and start the engine again.
• Select the reverse gear and reverse back in a straight line slowly.
• Use the foot brake to keep a constant speed until you have reached a safe place.

Driving downhill
Never exceed the inclination angle of the vehicle! If, in an emergency, you have to traverse the
slope when driving down it and the vehicle threatens to tip over, steer downhill along the maximum
gradient.
There is an increased risk of rolling over when driving downhill. Concentrate on steering the vehicle
in particular when driving downhill.
Use the off-road display on steep downhill stretches ⇒ Off-road display .
• Drive down steep inclines in first gear.
• Use the foot brake sparingly in order not to lose control of the vehicle.
• If it is possible and not dangerous, drive straight down the slope on the maximum gradient (in
the fall line).
• Do not press the clutch and do not select neutral.

WARNING
Never try driving up or down an incline if it is too steep for the vehicle. The vehicle could
slide away, tip over or roll.
• The gradient of the slope up or downhill may be no greater than the maximum
permissible gradient for the vehicle.
• Always drive up and downhill along the maximum gradient only.
• Never turn the vehicle when driving up or downhill. The vehicle could tip over or slide
away sideways.
• If the engine stops or if you cannot drive on for any reason: stop the vehicle and
depress the brake pedal. Start the engine again. Select the reverse gear, release the
brake pedal and using the engine braking effect to carefully reverse in a straight line
along the fall line. Keep the vehicle speed low and constant.
• If you are unable to start the engine, keep your foot steady on the brake pedal and
allow the vehicle to roll back down the track you made when driving up the hill. Keep
the vehicle speed low and constant.
• Never let the vehicle coast out of gear backwards down a slope. You could lose control
over the vehicle.

Traversing a slope

Fig. 133 Steering downhill along the maximum gradient.

Fig. 134 On steep slopes, you should always use the doors pointing up the hill to get out of the
vehicle.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Traversing a slope is one of the most dangerous off-road situations ⇒

.

It may look harmless, but you should not underestimate the difficulty and danger of traversing a
slope. A vehicle could slide away, tip over or roll when in this position. This can cause severe or
fatal injuries for all vehicle occupants.
Check whether you can use a safer route before driving across a slope.
If you have to drive at an angle, make sure the ground is as firm as possible. The vehicle is more
likely to slip, dip and tip over on slippery or soft ground. Always be aware that uneven ground
makes the slope steeper. The vehicle could otherwise tip over and start to roll.
When driving across a slope, the wheels on the lower side of the vehicle must never enter dips or
hollows. The wheels on the upper side of the vehicle must never roll over bumps, for example
stones, tree trunks or other obstacles.
If the vehicle threatens to tip over, steer immediately into the fall line and depress the accelerator
slightly ⇒ Fig. 133 . If it is not possible to drive along the fall line, then steer uphill and depress the
accelerator slightly.
The centre of gravity should be as low as possible. The weight of all vehicle occupants should be
evenly distributed. People with a larger or heavier build should sit on the higher side of the vehicle.
Remove the roof carrier and secure heavy items. The vehicle could tip over if items were to slide
suddenly ⇒

.

WARNING
Never try to traverse a slope, particularly if it is too steep for the vehicle. The vehicle could
slide away, tip over or roll. Please note the following points in order to reduce the risk of
accidents and serious injuries:
• You should never underestimate the difficulty and danger of traversing a slope. Never
choose an unsafe route or take a risk which could endanger you or your passengers. If
you are in any doubt about the safety of the route, turn round and choose another way.
• The vehicle can lose its grip and slide away sideways, tip over or roll over and roll
down the hill.
• The wheels on the lower side of the vehicle must never enter dips or hollows. The
wheels on the upper side of the vehicle must never roll over bumps, for example
stones, tree trunks or other obstacles.
• Please ensure that you can steer in the fall line on a route driving across a slope.
Choose another route if this is not guaranteed. If the vehicle threatens to tip over, steer
immediately into the fall line and depress the accelerator slightly ⇒ Fig. 133 .
• If the vehicle is stopped when traversing a slope, avoid sudden movements in the
vehicle. The vehicle can lose its grip and slide away sideways, tip over or roll over and
roll down the hill.
• Vehicle occupants should never leave the vehicle via the doors facing down the hill
when parked sideways on a steep hill. This could cause the centre of gravity to move.
The vehicle could otherwise tip over or roll over and roll down the hill. To avoid this,
always leave the vehicle carefully on the side that is facing uphill ⇒ Fig. 134 .
• When getting out the vehicle, please ensure that the vehicle door which opens uphill
does not close with its own weight or through carelessness thus potentially causing
injury.

Driving through ditches
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Check whether the tilt angle and gradient entry/exit angles are small enough to drive through
the ditch with the vehicle ⇒

.

• If possible, drive through the ditch at an acute angle ⇒

.

• The tilt angle may not get too large when driving through the ditch.

WARNING
Never drive through a ditch if the entry/exit angle is too steep for the vehicle and the ditch
is too deep. The vehicle could slide away, tip over or roll.

NOTICE
If you drive into the ditch at a right angle, the front wheels will fall in. The underbody of
your vehicle could get stuck and damaged which means that the vehicle could break
down. It is then almost impossible to get out of the ditch despite having all-wheel drive.

If your vehicle gets stuck
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Rocking out a vehicle requires a great deal of training and feeling for the vehicle.
If you make a mistake when rocking the vehicle, it can sink deeper and you will need assistance to
get out of the mud.

When you cannot proceed ...
• Carefully dig out all the wheels and check that no other parts of the vehicle are stuck in the
sand.
• Engage reverse gear.
• Reverse over your own tracks, accelerating gently.
If this does not help, place brushwood, floor mats or sacking directly in front of the wheels to
increase grip ⇒

.

Rocking the vehicle
Never allow the wheels to spin for long periods as this will cause the vehicle to sink deeper ⇒

.

• Switch off TCS ⇒ Brake support systems .
• Position the steering wheel so that it is facing straight ahead.
• Reverse until the point where the wheels just start to spin.
• Quickly select first gear and drive forwards until the wheels start to spin again.
• Repeat driving back and forth until you have enough momentum to free yourself.
• Switch the TCS on after the rocking procedure is completed ⇒ Brake support systems .
• Use the Off-road driving profile.

WARNING
Nobody may stand either in front or behind the vehicle, particularly if you are attempting
to free a stuck vehicle.
• Spinning wheels can propel stones, brushwood, pieces of wood or other objects that
are in front or behind the wheels at enormous speed and cause potentially fatal injury.
• People standing in front of or behind the vehicle could be run over if the stuck vehicle
starts to move suddenly.

After off-road driving
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Checklist
Clean the turn signals, headlight system, the number plate and all windows.
If necessary, remove the towing eye and the snow chains.
Check the tyres, struts and axles for damage and remove dirt, stones and other foreign
bodies from the tyre tread.
Inspect the vehicle underbody and remove all items that are jammed in the brake system,
on the wheels, in the running gear, in the exhaust system and in the engine, such as
branches, leaves or pieces of wood . If you see any damage or leaks, take your vehicle to a
qualified workshop.
Clean heavy soiling from the radiator grille and the vehicle underbody Vehicle care.
Check the engine compartment to see if any dirt is affecting the engine operation In the
engine compartment.
Switch off OFF-ROAD mode Selecting a driving profile (4MOTION Action Control).
Switch on TCS again Brake support systems.

WARNING
Objects caught underneath the vehicle underbody are a danger. The vehicle underbody
must always be examined for trapped objects after every journey off-road.
• Never drive if objects are trapped in the underbody, brake system, wheels, running
gear, exhaust system and engine.
• Inflammable materials, such as dry leaves or twigs, could ignite on hot vehicle
components. A fire can cause serious injuries.
• Trapped objects could damage the fuel lines, brake system, seals and other
components. This could cause you to lose control of your vehicle and cause accidents.

Driver assist systems
Cruise control system (CCS)
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Operating the cruise control system with the lever
⇒ Operating the cruise control system via the multifunction steering wheel
⇒ Troubleshooting

The cruise control system helps to
maintain a speed set by the driver.

Speed range
The cruise control system is available when driving forwards at speeds from around 20 km/h
(15 mph).

Changing gear
Cruise control is interrupted as soon as you press the clutch pedal and is resumed automatically
after the gear change.

Driving downhill
Driving downhill may cause the set speed to be exceeded.
Apply the foot brake to slow the vehicle down, and change down a gear as required.

How do I operate the cruise control system?
Depending on the vehicle equipment, you can operate the cruise control system either by means of
the lever on the steering column ⇒ Operating the cruise control system with the lever or via the
multifunction steering wheel ⇒ Operating the cruise control system via the multifunction steering
wheel . The displays on the instrument cluster are identical in both cases.

WARNING
Use of the cruise control system can lead to accidents and serious injuries if traffic does
not allow you to drive at a safe distance at a constant speed.
• Never use the cruise control system in heavy traffic, on steep or winding roads, or on
slippery road surfaces e.g. on snow, ice, wet roads, loose chippings, or on flooded
roads.
• Never use the cruise control system when driving off-road or on unpaved road
surfaces.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Always switch cruise control off after use to avoid unintentional speed control.
• It is dangerous to use a set speed that is too high for the prevailing road, traffic or
weather conditions.
• The cruise control system cannot maintain a constant speed when travelling downhill.
The vehicle speed can increase under its own weight. Use the foot brake to slow the
vehicle.

Operating the cruise control system with the lever

Fig. 135 On the left of the steering column: cruise control system lever.

Fig. 136 On the instrument cluster display: cruise control system status displays (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 136 :
Cruise control system not regulating, stored speed shown small or darkened.
System fault. Go to a qualified workshop.
Cruise control system not regulating, no speed stored.
Cruise control system regulating, stored speed displayed in large figures.

Switching on
• Move the lever ⇒ Fig. 135① to position

.

No speed has been stored and the speed is not yet controlled.

Starting control
• Press the

button ⇒ Fig. 135③ while driving.

The current speed is stored and controlled. The green indicator lamp

also lights up.

Setting the speed
• + 1 km/h (1 mph): tip the lever ⇒ Fig. 135① to position

⇒ Fig. 135⊕ .

• + 10 km/h (5 mph): push the lever briefly towards
• - 1 km/h (1 mph): press the button

.

⇒ Fig. 135③ .
⇒ Fig. 135㊀ .

• - 10 km/h (5 mph): push the lever briefly towards

To keep changing the speed on a continuous basis, press and hold the lever towards

⇒ Fig. 135⊕ or

⇒ Fig. 135㊀ . The vehicle adapts the current speed by

accelerating or closing the throttle. The vehicle does not actively brake.

Interrupting control
• Press the lever ⇒ Fig. 135① to position

or depress the brake.

The speed remains stored in the memory.

Resuming control
• Move the lever ⇒ Fig. 135① to position

.

The stored speed is resumed and controlled.

Switching off
• Move the lever ⇒ Fig. 135① to position

.

The cruise control system is switched off and the stored speed is deleted.

Operating the cruise control system via the multifunction steering
wheel

Fig. 137 Left-hand side of the multifunction steering wheel: buttons for operating the cruise control
system.

Fig. 138 On the instrument cluster display: cruise control system status displays (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 138 :
Cruise control system not regulating, stored speed shown small or darkened.
System fault. Go to a qualified workshop.
Cruise control system not regulating, no speed stored.
Cruise control system regulating, stored speed displayed in large figures.

Switching on
• Press the

or

button.

No speed has been stored and the speed is not yet controlled.

Starting control
• Press the

button while driving.

The current speed is stored and controlled. The green indicator lamp

.

Setting the speed
You can adjust the stored speed during speed control by the cruise control system:
+ 1 km/h (1 mph)
Press and hold the button

- 1 km/h (1 mph)
or

+ 10 km/h (5 mph)

- 10 km/h (5 mph)

to continuously change the stored speed. The vehicle

adapts the current speed by accelerating or closing the throttle. The vehicle does not actively brake.

Interrupting control
• Briefly press the button

or

. Alternatively, depress the brake pedal.

The speed remains stored in the memory.

Resuming control
• Press the

button.

The stored speed is resumed and controlled.

Switching off
• Press and hold the

button.

The cruise control system is switched off and the stored speed is deleted.

Changing to the speed limiter
• Press the

button.

The cruise control system is switched off.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Regulation is automatically interrupted.
• You have depressed the brake pedal.
®

• The selector lever of the DSG dual clutch gearbox is not in the selector lever position D.
• The vehicle has exceeded the stored speed for an extended period.
• If regulation related to driving dynamics is taking place, e.g. by TCS and ESC.
• Malfunction. Switch off the cruise control system and have it checked by a qualified workshop.
Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Speed limiter
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Operating the speed limiter with the turn signal and main beam lever
⇒ Operating the speed limiter via the multifunction steering wheel
⇒ Troubleshooting

The speed limiter helps to prevent the
vehicle from exceeding a speed that
you have stored.

Speed range
The speed limiter is available when driving forwards at speeds from around 30 km/h (20 mph).

Driving with speed limiter
You can interrupt the speed limiter function at any time by fully depressing the accelerator beyond
the point of resistance. The green warning and indicator lamp

flashes as soon as the stored

speed is exceeded. The speed remains stored in the memory.
The speed limiter function is activated again automatically as soon as the speed drops below the
stored speed.

Driving downhill
Driving downhill may cause the set speed to be exceeded. The green warning and indicator lamp
flashes in this case. An acoustic warning may also be given.
Apply the foot brake to slow the vehicle down, and change down a gear as required.

How do I operate the speed limiter?
Depending on the vehicle equipment, you can operate the speed limiter either by means of the turn
signal and main beam lever ⇒ Operating the speed limiter with the turn signal and main beam lever
or via the multifunction steering wheel ⇒ Operating the speed limiter via the multifunction steering
wheel .
The displays on the instrument cluster are identical in both cases ⇒ Fig. 140 .

WARNING
Always switch off the speed limiter after use to avoid unintentional speed regulation.
• The speed limiter does not relieve the driver of their responsibility for the speed of the
vehicle. Do not drive at full throttle if it is not required.
• Use of the speed limiter in adverse weather conditions is dangerous and can cause
serious injury, e.g. through aquaplaning, snow, ice, or leaves. Only use the speed
limiter when the road and weather conditions allow it to be used safely.
• The speed limiter cannot limit the vehicle speed when travelling downhill. The vehicle
speed can increase under its own weight. Shift down a gear or brake the vehicle using
the foot brake.

Operating the speed limiter with the turn signal and main beam
lever

Fig. 139 On the left of the steering column: switch and buttons for operating the speed limiter.

Fig. 140 On the instrument cluster display: speed limiter status displays (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 140 :
Control active, stored speed displayed in large figures.
Control interrupted, stored speed shown small or darkened.

Switching on
• Move switch ⇒ Fig. 139② to position

.

The speed last set is stored. No control yet.

Starting control
• Press button ⇒ Fig. 139① in the area

while driving.

The current speed is stored as the maximum speed. The green indicator lamp

.

Setting the speed
You can adjust the stored speed by means of the button ⇒ Fig. 139① :
(short)+ 1 km/h (1 mph)

(short)- 1 km/h (1 mph)

Press and hold button ⇒ Fig. 139① to continuously change the stored speed.

Resuming control
• Press button ⇒ Fig. 139① in area

.

The speed limiter is activated again as soon as the current speed is lower than the stored speed.

Switching off
• Move switch ⇒ Fig. 139② to position

.

The speed limiter is switched off and the speed remains stored (also after the ignition is switched
off).

Operating the speed limiter via the multifunction steering wheel

Fig. 141 Left-hand side of the multifunction steering wheel: buttons for operating the speed limiter.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on
• Press the

or

button.

The speed last set is stored. No control yet.

Starting control
• Press the

button while driving.

The current speed is stored as the maximum speed. The green indicator lamp

also lights up.

Setting the speed
You can adjust the stored speed:
+ 1 km/h (1 mph)

- 1 km/h (1 mph)

Press and hold the button

or

+ 10 km/h (5 mph)

- 10 km/h (5 mph)

to continuously change the stored speed.

Interrupting control
• Press the

or

button.

The speed remains stored in the memory.

Resuming control
• Press the

button.

The speed limiter is activated again as soon as the current speed is lower than the stored speed.

Switching off
• Press and hold the

button.

The speed limiter is switched off and the speed remains stored (also after the ignition is switched
off).

Changing to cruise control system or Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC)
• Press the

button.

The speed limiter is switched off.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Regulation is automatically interrupted.
• Malfunction. Switch off the speed limiter and have it checked by a qualified workshop.
Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.
For safety reasons, the speed limiter switches itself off completely only when you release the
accelerator once or switch off the system manually.

Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC)
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Special driving situations
⇒ System limits
⇒ Switching ACC on and off
⇒ Setting ACC
⇒ Troubleshooting

The Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC)
maintains a constant speed that you
have set. When your vehicle
approaches a vehicle that is driving in
front, ACC automatically adapts the
speed to maintain the distance that you
have set.

Driving with ACC
You can override control by ACC at any time. Control will be interrupted if you brake. If you
accelerate, control will be interrupted while you are accelerating and then resumed.
Control by ACC is less dynamic when towing a trailer ⇒ . ACC will not perform control if the brake
lights of the trailer are defective.

Brake request
If automatic deceleration by ACC is not sufficient, ACC will request you to brake additionally by a
corresponding message on the instrument cluster. The red warning lamp
acoustic warning is also given. Brake immediately.

lights up. An

Speed range
ACC controls the vehicle in the speed range between 30 km/h (20 mph) and 160 km/h (100 mph)
or 210 km/h (130 mph). This speed range may differ in certain markets.

Radar sensor
ACC detects driving situations by means of the radar sensor at the front of the vehicle ⇒ Front
view . The range of the radar sensor is up to approximately 120 m.

Does the vehicle have ACC?
The vehicle is equipped with ACC if you can make settings for ACC in the vehicle settings of the
Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .
If the vehicle has ACC, the cruise control system is not available as an independent system.

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in the ACC cannot overcome the laws of physics, and
functions only within the limits of the system. Never let the extra convenience tempt you
into taking safety risks when driving. Careless or unintentional use of the Adaptive Cruise
Control (ACC) can cause accidents and lead to serious injury. The system is not a
substitute for the full concentration of the driver.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Do not use the ACC in poor visibility, on steep or winding roads, on slippery road
surfaces, e.g. on snow, ice, wet roads, loose chippings, or on flooded roads.
• Never use ACC off-road or on non-surfaced roads. The ACC is designed for use on
surfaced roads only.
• ACC does not respond to stationary vehicles.
• The ACC does not react to persons, animals or vehicles crossing or approaching in the
same lane.
• Brake immediately if speed reduction by ACC is not sufficient.
• Brake immediately if a request to brake appears on the instrument cluster display.
• Brake if the vehicle starts rolling unintentionally after a request to brake.
• Be prepared to control the speed yourself at all times.

Special driving situations

Fig. 142 On the instrument cluster display: slower vehicle detected in the left-hand lane
(illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Overtaking
If you indicate left (left-hand traffic: indicate right) to overtake, ACC will accelerate the vehicle and
reduce the distance from the vehicle in front. Your set speed will not be exceeded.
If ACC does not detect any vehicle in front after you have changed lane, ACC will accelerate the
vehicle up to the set speed.

Stop-and-go traffic
®

ACC can brake vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox to a standstill and hold them stationary.
ACC remains active and the instrument cluster display shows ACC ready for a few seconds.
During this time the vehicle will move off again automatically as soon as the vehicle in front moves
off (depending on the vehicle equipment level and not available in all countries).
• Press the

button.

• Press the

button or briefly press the accelerator.

• The vehicle is stationary for longer than approximately three minutes.
• A vehicle door is opened.
• The ignition is switched off.

Avoiding overtaking on the right (left-hand traffic: overtaking on the left)
If ACC detects a slower vehicle in the left-hand lane (left-hand traffic: in the right-hand lane), ACC
will brake the vehicle gently within the system limits and therefore prevent a prohibited overtaking
manoeuvre ⇒ Fig. 142 . The function is active from speeds of around 80 km/h (50 mph), but is not
available in all countries.

WARNING
If the message ACC ready is shown on the instrument cluster display and the vehicle in
front moves off, your vehicle will move off automatically. In some cases, the radar sensor
may be unable to detect obstacles that are located in the vehicle's path. This can result in
serious injury and accidents.
• Always check the road ahead before moving off and brake the vehicle if necessary.

System limits

Fig. 143 Driving through bends. Vehicles outside the range of the radar sensor.

Fig. 144 Vehicle changes lane. Turning vehicle and stationary vehicle.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

When not to use ACC
• Driving in heavy rain, snow or heavy spray
• Driving through tunnels
• Driving through road works
• Driving on twisting roads, e.g. mountain roads
• Driving off-road
• Driving in multi-storey car parks
• Driving on roads with embedded metal objects, e.g. railways tracks
• Driving on roads with loose chippings
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles without inside overtaking prevention function: driving on multi-lane
roads when vehicles in the overtaking lane are driving more slowly.

Objects that cannot be detected
• Persons
• Animals
• Stationary vehicles
• Crossing or oncoming vehicles
• Other stationary obstacles

If a stationary vehicle is hidden behind a vehicle that has been detected by the adaptive cruise
control and this vehicle turns off the road or changes lane, the ACC will not react to the stationary
vehicle ⇒ Fig. 144

.

Bends
The radar sensor always measures straight ahead. For this reason, vehicles may be incorrectly
detected or vehicles driving ahead not detected in tight bends ⇒ Fig. 143

.

Vehicles outside the sensor range
• Vehicles that are driving outside the sensor range in close proximity to your vehicle, e.g.
motorbikes ⇒ Fig. 143

.

• Vehicles that change into your lane directly in front of your vehicle ⇒ Fig. 144

.

• Vehicles with bodies or attachments that project beyond the vehicle.

WARNING
If you use ACC in the above situations, this can result in accidents and serious injuries as
well as violation of legal regulations.

Switching ACC on and off

Fig. 145 Left-hand side of the multifunction steering wheel: buttons for operating ACC
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on ACC
• Press the

button.

The indicator lamp

lights up grey, ACC does not regulate.

Starting control
• Press the

button while driving forwards.

ACC stores the current speed and maintains the set distance. If the current speed is outside the
defined speed range, ACC will set the minimum speed (when driving more slowly than the limit) or
maximum speed (when driving faster than the limit).
The following indicator lamps light up, depending on the driving situation:
ACC regulating.

No vehicle has been detected ahead.

Vehicle detected ahead (white).

Interrupting control
• Briefly press the
The indicator lamp

button or press the brake pedal.
lights up grey, the speed and distance remain stored.

Control is automatically interrupted if the traction control system (TCS) is deactivated.

Resuming control
• Press the

button.

ACC adopts the last set speed and last set distance. The instrument cluster display shows the set
speed and the indicator lamp

lights up green.

Switching off ACC
• Press and hold the

button.

The set speed is deleted.

Changing to the speed limiter

• Press the

button.

ACC is switched off.

Setting ACC

Fig. 146 On the instrument cluster display: setting the distance (illustration, ACC regulating).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Setting the distance
You can set the distance in 5 steps from very small to very large:
• Press the

button and then the button

• Alternatively, press the

or

.

button as often as necessary until the desired distance is set.

The instrument cluster display shows the chosen distance setting ⇒ Fig. 146① . Please observe
any country-specific requirements for the minimum distance.
You can set the distance which should be set at the start of control operation in the vehicle settings
of the Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .
If ACC is not regulating, the set distance and vehicle are not highlighted on the instrument cluster
display.

Setting the speed
You can adjust the stored speed within the defined speed range by means of the buttons on
the multifunction steering wheel:
+ 1 km/h (1 mph)

- 1 km/h (1 mph)

+ 10 km/h (5 mph)

- 10 km/h (5 mph)

Press and hold the corresponding button to incrementally change the stored speed.

Setting the control behaviour
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with driving profile selection: set the desired driving profile

⇒ Driving profile selection and 4MOTION Active Control .
•

m/k/a995MK Vehicles without driving profile selection: set the desired gearbox
programme in the vehicle settings of the Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .

WARNING
If you do not maintain the minimum distance to a vehicle in front and the difference in
speed between the vehicle in front and your own vehicle is so great that the braking action
of the ACC is insufficient, you are in danger of colliding with the vehicle in front. The
braking distance is also longer in rain and winter road conditions.
• The Adaptive Cruise Control may not be able to detect all driving situations correctly.
• Always be prepared to brake the vehicle yourself.
• Speed and distance control are overridden when you press the accelerator. ACC does
not brake automatically in this case.
• Observe any country-specific regulations relating to the minimum distance.
• Always set a larger distance in wet or snowy conditions or when visibility is poor.

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The warning lamp and a message are displayed on the instrument cluster display in the event
of malfunctions.
If the malfunction cannot be rectified by one of the listed measures, switch off ACC and go to a
qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

ACC is not available, the radar sensor does not have sufficient visibility
• The radar sensor is dirty. Clean the radar sensor ⇒ Vehicle care .
• The visibility of the radar sensor is impaired by add-on parts, the trim frames of number plate
holders or stickers. Keep the area around the radar sensor free.
• The radar sensor has been displaced or damaged, e.g. due to damage to the front of the
vehicle. Check whether damage is visible ⇒ Repairs and technical modifications .
• Fault or malfunction. Switch off and restart the engine.
• Structural modifications have been made to the front of the vehicle.
• The genuine Volkswagen badge is not used.

ACC does not function as expected
• The radar sensor is dirty. Clean the radar sensor ⇒ Vehicle care .
• The visibility of the radar sensor is impaired due to the weather conditions, e.g. snow, or due to
detergent deposits or coatings. Clean the radar sensor ⇒ Vehicle care .
• The system limits are not met ⇒ System limits .
• The brakes have overheated, control was interrupted automatically. Allow the brakes to cool
down and check functioning again.

Control cannot be started
• A forward gear other than first gear is selected (manual gearbox) or the selector lever is in
selector lever position D or the Tiptronic gate.
• The speed is at least 25 km/h (16 mph) in the case of vehicles with manual gearbox.
• The brake lights on the vehicle and trailer ⇒ are working.
• ESC is not regulating.
• The brake pedal is not depressed.
Unusual noises during the automatic braking operation are normal and not a sign that there
is a fault.

Area monitoring system (Front Assist)
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Warning levels and braking intervention
⇒ Operating the area monitoring system (Front Assist)
⇒ Pedestrian Monitoring
⇒ System limits
⇒ Troubleshooting

The area monitoring system (Front
Assist) with City Emergency Braking
System can help to avoid accidents.
Within the limits of the system, Front Assist can warn the driver about imminent collisions, prepare
the vehicle for emergency braking, assist with braking, and initiate automatic braking. The warning
time varies depending on the traffic situation and driver behaviour.
Front Assist is not a substitute for the full concentration of the driver.

Driving with Front Assist
You can cancel the automatic braking interventions of Front Assist by steering or pressing the
accelerator.

Automatic braking
Front Assist can decelerate the vehicle to a standstill. The vehicle will then not be held
permanently. Depress the brake pedal.
The brake pedal will feel harder during an automatic braking operation.

Radar sensor
Front Assist detects driving situations by means of the radar sensor at the front of the vehicle

⇒ Front view . The range of the radar sensor is up to approximately 120 m.

Functions included in the system
The City Emergency Braking System and Pedestrian Monitoring (depending on vehicle equipment)
are part of Front Assist and are automatically active when Front Assist is switched on.

WARNING
The intelligent technology of Front Assist cannot overcome the laws of physics, and
functions only within the limits of the system. Never let the extra convenience afforded by
Front Assist tempt you into taking risks when driving. The driver is always responsible for
braking in time.
• If Front Assist issues a warning, brake your vehicle immediately depending on the
traffic situation or avoid the obstacle.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Front Assist cannot prevent accidents and serious injuries on its own.
• Front Assist can issue unnecessary warnings and carry out unwanted braking
interventions in certain complex driving situations, e.g. at traffic islands.
• Front Assist can issue unnecessary warnings and carry out unwanted braking
interventions when its function is impaired, e.g. if the radar sensor is dirty or its
position has been changed.
• Front Assist without Pedestrian Monitoring does not react to persons. In addition, the
system does not react to animals or crossing vehicles or to vehicles that are
approaching in the same lane.
• If you are unsure whether the vehicle possesses Pedestrian Monitoring, please enquire
about this at a qualified workshop before starting your journey.
• Be prepared to take over control of the vehicle yourself at all times.

Warning levels and braking intervention
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Distance warning
The system detects when safety is endangered by driving too close to the vehicle in front. The
warning lamp

Lit up Increase the distance.

Speed range: around 65 km/h (40 mph) to 250 km/h (155 mph).

Advance warning
The system detects a possible collision with a vehicle in front or a pedestrian crossing in front of the
vehicle and prepares the vehicle for possible emergency braking.
A warning tone sounds and the warning lamp

Lit up Brake or take evasive action.

Speed range: around 30 km/h (20 mph) to 250 km/h (155 mph).

Urgent warning
If the driver does not react to the advance warning, the system may initiate a short braking jolt in
order to draw attention to the increasing collision risk. Brake or take evasive action.
Speed range: around 30 km/h (20 mph) to 250 km/h (155 mph).

Automatic braking
If the driver also does not react to the urgent warning, the vehicle can be braked automatically with
braking force that increases in several stages. The reduced speed means that it is possible to
minimise the consequences of an accident.
Speed range: around 5 km/h (3 mph) to 250 km/h (155 mph).

Braking intervention
If the system detects that the driver is braking insufficiently when there is a risk of collision, the
system can increase the braking force and help prevent a collision. The braking intervention takes
place only for as long as the brake pedal is pressed hard.
Speed range: around 5 km/h (3 mph) to 250 km/h (155 mph).

City Emergency Braking System
The City Emergency Braking System is part of Front Assist. If the driver does not react to a possible
collision, the system can also automatically brake the vehicle with increasing braking force without
any advance warning.
The warning lamp

.

Speed range: around 5 km/h (3 mph) to 30 km/h (20 mph).

Operating the area monitoring system (Front Assist)
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Front Assist and the advance warning are automatically switched on when you switch on the
ignition.
Volkswagen recommends that Front Assist and also the distance and advance warnings are
switched on at all times. Exceptions ⇒ System limits .

Switching on and off
• Switch Front Assist on and off in the vehicle settings of the Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle
settings menu .
• OR: switch Front Assist on and off in the instrument cluster menus ⇒ Instrument cluster
menus .
If you switch off Front Assist, the advance warning and distance warning will also be switched off.
The indicator lamp

m/k/n998MK .

Setting the distance and advance warnings
• Switch the desired function on or off in the vehicle settings of the Infotainment system ⇒ Vehicle
settings menu .
Depending on the vehicle equipment, you can also set the warning time for the advance warning.

Some settings can be stored in the user accounts of the personalisation function and
therefore change automatically when the user account changes ⇒ Personalisation .

Pedestrian Monitoring
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The Pedestrian Monitoring system can
help to avoid accidents with pedestrians
crossing the vehicle's path, or to
mitigate the consequences of an
accident.
The Pedestrian Monitoring system is not available in all countries, depending on the vehicle
equipment level.
The system gives a warning when there is a risk of collision, prepares the vehicle for emergency
braking, helps to brake the vehicle or performs an automatic brake intervention.
When the system warns the driver by means of an advance warning, the warning lamp
When Front Assist is switched on, Pedestrian Monitoring is active as part of Front Assist in a
vehicle speed range from around 5 km/h (3 mph) to 65 km/h (40 mph).

.

WARNING
The intelligent Pedestrian Monitoring technology cannot overcome the laws of physics,
and functions only within the limits of the system. Never let the extra convenience
afforded by the Pedestrian Monitoring system tempt you into taking any risks when
driving. The driver is always responsible for braking in time.
• If Pedestrian Monitoring issues a warning, brake your vehicle immediately depending
on the traffic situation or avoid the pedestrian.
• The Pedestrian Monitoring system cannot prevent accidents and serious injuries on its
own.
• The Pedestrian Monitoring system can issue unnecessary warnings and carry out
unwanted braking interventions in complex driving situations, e.g. on a twisting main
road.
• The Pedestrian Monitoring system can issue unnecessary warnings and carry out
unwanted braking interventions when its function is impaired, e.g. if the radar sensor is
covered or its position has been changed.
• Be prepared to take over control of the vehicle yourself at all times.

System limits
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Front Assist has physical and system-related limitations. From the driver's perspective, some Front
Assist reactions may therefore occur unexpectedly or with a delay in certain circumstances. You
should therefore always be prepared to take full control of the vehicle if necessary.
• In tight bends.
• If the accelerator is fully depressed.
• If Front Assist is switched off or faulty.
• If TCS is switched off manually.
• If ESC is taking corrective action.
• If there is a fault in several brake lights on the vehicle or on a trailer with an electrical
connection to the vehicle ⇒ .
• If the radar sensor is dirty or covered.
• If there are metal objects, e.g. tracks in the road or metal plates used in roadworks, or road
signs, above and adjacent to the road.
• If the vehicle is reversing.
• Under hard acceleration.
• In snow or heavy rain.
• In case of narrow vehicles, e.g. motorbikes.
• If vehicles are travelling slightly to the left or right of your vehicle.
• If vehicles are crossing in front of your vehicle.
• If there is oncoming traffic.
• If pedestrians are standing in front of the vehicle, approaching the vehicle, or moving in the
same direction as the vehicle.
• In complex driving situations, e.g. at traffic islands.
• In unclear traffic situations, e.g. vehicles ahead are heavily braking or turning off.
• When loads or attachment parts on other vehicles protrude to the side, rear or above the normal
dimensions of the vehicle.

Switching off Front Assist
• If the vehicle is being towed.
• If the vehicle is on a rolling road test bed.
• If the vehicle is driven in areas other than public roads.
• If the radar sensor is faulty.
• After external force on the radar sensor, e.g. after a rear-end collision.
• In the event of multiple unwanted interventions.
• If the radar sensor is covered temporarily by any auxiliary equipment, e.g. auxiliary headlights.
• If the vehicle is loaded onto a truck, car ferry or motorail train.

WARNING
Failure to switch off Front Assist in the situations mentioned can result in accidents and
serious injuries.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
A message is displayed on the instrument cluster display in the event of malfunctions.
If the malfunction cannot be rectified by one of the listed measures, switch off Front Assist and go
to a qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Front Assist is not available, the radar sensor does not have sufficient
visibility
• The radar sensor is dirty. Clean the radar sensor ⇒ Vehicle care .
• The visibility of the radar sensor is impaired by add-on parts, the trim frames of number plate
holders or stickers. Keep the area around the radar sensor free.
• The radar sensor has been displaced or damaged, e.g. due to damage to the front of the
vehicle. Check whether damage is visible ⇒ Repairs and technical modifications .
• Structural modifications have been made to the front of the vehicle.
• The genuine Volkswagen badge is not used.

Front Assist does not function as expected or is triggered unnecessarily
several times
• The radar sensor is dirty. Clean the radar sensor ⇒ Vehicle care .
• The visibility of the radar sensor is impaired due to the weather conditions, e.g. snow, or due to
detergent deposits or coatings. Clean the radar sensor ⇒ Vehicle care .
• The system limits are not met ⇒ System limits .

Lane keeping system (Lane Assist)
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Driving with the lane keeping system
⇒ Troubleshooting

The lane keeping system (Lane Assist)
helps the driver stay in lane.
Using a camera in the windscreen ⇒ Vehicle overviews , the lane keeping system detects lane
markings on the road. If your vehicle moves too close to a recognised lane marking, the system will
warn the driver with a corrective steering intervention. The corrective steering intervention can be
overridden by the driver at any time.

Adaptive lane guidance (depending on vehicle equipment)
The adaptive lane guidance system detects the preferred position in a lane and keeps the vehicle in
this position.
Adaptive lane guidance is switched on and off in the Driver assistance menu in the Infotainment
system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

System limits
Use the lane keeping system only on motorways and good main roads.
The system is not active under the following conditions:
• Vehicle speed is less than 60 km/h (37 mph).
• Lane keeping system has not detected any lane markings or lane boundaries.

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in the lane keeping system cannot overcome the laws of
physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Always take care when using
the lane keeping system otherwise you could cause accidents or injuries. The system is
not a substitute for the full concentration of the driver.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Your hands should always be on the steering wheel so that you can steer at any time.
The driver is always responsible for staying in lane.
• The lane keeping system cannot recognise all road markings. Poor road surfaces, road
structures or objects could be recognised incorrectly as road markings by the lane
keeping system. The lane keeping system should be switched off immediately in these
situations.
• Follow the information on the instrument cluster display and respond according to the
commands.
• Always pay close attention to what is happening around the vehicle.
• If the camera's field of view is dirty, covered or damaged, the function of the lane
keeping system may be impaired.

Driving with the lane keeping system

Fig. 147 On the instrument cluster display: lane keeping system displays.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching the lane keeping system on and off
• Using the button for the driver assist systems, select the corresponding menu option ⇒ Button
for driver assist systems .
• OR: depending on the vehicle equipment, in the Driver assistance menu in the Infotainment
system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .
If the indicator lamp

lights up yellow in the instrument cluster display, the lane keeping

system is switched on but is not active.
The lane keeping system is active above a vehicle speed of 60 km/h (37 mph) and when it has
detected lane markings ⇒ System limits . The indicator lamp

lights up green.

Displays
Display areas in the instrument cluster display ⇒ Fig. 147 :
Lane markings detected. System not regulating.
Lane markings detected. System is regulating.
No lane markings detected. System not regulating.
Lane markings detected. System is regulating. Adaptive lane guidance active.
In some equipment levels a notification also appears on the Head-up Display ⇒ Instrument cluster .

Temporarily switching off the lane keeping system
Switch off the lane keeping system in the following situations:
• Very sporty driving.
• In poor weather conditions and when driving on poor roads.
• In roadworks and before crests in the road.

Driver intervention prompt
Your hands must always remain on the steering wheel even with the lane keeping system. If not, a
message will be shown in the instrument cluster display.

If the driver does not respond, the system will give another warning by initiating a quick jolt of the
brake before switching to passive or activating Emergency Assist (depending on the equipment)

⇒ Emergency Assist .

Behaviour when changing lanes
There is no steering intervention when the turn signal is switched on in vehicles without lane
keeping system.
In vehicles with lane keeping system, a steering intervention takes place if the turn signal is
switched on in critical situations ⇒ Lane change system (Side Assist) incl. Rear Traffic Alert .

Steering wheel vibration
If the steering wheel vibrates, the driver must actively take over steering.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No camera visibility, error message, system switches itself off
• Clean the camera or remove stickers or accessories from the camera ⇒ Caring for and cleaning
the vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The camera is dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The camera visibility may be
impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The camera is covered by water.
• The vehicle is damaged in the area of the camera.
• Changes have been made to the paintwork around the camera or the construction has been
modified, e.g. vehicle front end or the running gear.

Traffic Jam Assist
Traffic Jam Assist helps the driver to
keep in lane, and also provides
assistance when following other
vehicles in congestion or slow-moving
traffic.
Traffic Jam Assist is an extension of the lane keeping system (Lane Assist) ⇒ Lane keeping system
(Lane Assist) for vehicles with a DSG

®

dual clutch gearbox and combines this function with the

Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) . Please therefore read both these
chapters and observe the information about the system limits and warnings.

Traffic Jam Assist function
At speeds under 60 km/h (37 mph), Traffic Jam Assist can maintain a time interval set by the driver
to a vehicle in front and help the vehicle to stay in lane ⇒

.

The system automatically controls acceleration, braking, steering and, if required, will decelerate to
a stop behind a vehicle that is stopping, and then drive away again automatically.
Use Traffic Jam Assist only on motorways and good main roads. Do not use Traffic Jam Assist in
urban traffic.

Switching Traffic Jam Assist on and off
Traffic Jam Assist is switched on and off together with adaptive lane guidance ⇒ Lane keeping
system (Lane Assist) in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment
system .
Traffic Jam Assist can also be switched off together with the lane keeping system by pressing the
button for driver assist systems ⇒ Button for driver assist systems .

Technical requirements for using Traffic Jam Assist
• The lane keeping system is switched on and active together with adaptive lane guidance

⇒ Lane keeping system (Lane Assist) .
• Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is switched on and active ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .
• The selector lever is in position D/S or in the Tiptronic gate.
• The system has detected a lane marking on both the right and left sides of the vehicle

⇒ Fig. 147 .
• The speed is under 60 km/h (37 mph).

Traffic Jam Assist is not active (the indicator lamp for the lane keeping
system lights up yellow)
• As soon as one of the conditions indicated on ⇒ Technical requirements for using Traffic Jam
Assist is no longer fulfilled.
• If one of the conditions for the proper functioning of the lane keeping system is no longer
fulfilled ⇒ Lane keeping system (Lane Assist) .
• If one of the conditions for the proper functioning of the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is no
longer fulfilled ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) .

Switch off Traffic Jam Assist in the following situations
Traffic Jam Assist should always be switched off in the following situations due to system
limitations:
• When a high level of concentration is required by the driver.
• Very sporty driving.
• In poor weather conditions, e.g. snow or heavy rain.
• Poor road conditions.
• Driving through road works.
• In urban areas.

WARNING
The intelligent technology of Traffic Jam Assist cannot overcome the laws of physics, and
functions only within the limits of the system. Always take care when using Traffic Jam
Assist as you could otherwise cause accidents or injuries. The system is not a substitute
for the full concentration of the driver.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Do not use Traffic Jam Assist in urban traffic.
• Do not use Traffic Jam Assist in poor visibility, on steep or winding roads, or on
slippery road surfaces e.g. on snow, ice, wet roads, loose chippings or flooded roads.
• Never use Traffic Jam Assist off-road or on unsurfaced roads. Traffic Jam Assist is
designed solely for use on surfaced roads.
• Traffic Jam Assist does not react to persons, animals or vehicles crossing or
approaching in the same lane.
• If the speed reduction achieved by Traffic Jam Assist is insufficient, brake the vehicle
immediately by depressing the foot brake.
• If the vehicle starts to roll unintentionally after the driver has been prompted to take
control of the vehicle, brake the vehicle immediately using the foot brake.
• If a prompt instructing the driver to take control of the vehicle appears on the
instrument cluster display, take control of the vehicle immediately.
• Your hands should always be on the steering wheel so that you can steer at any time.
The driver is always responsible for staying in lane.
• The driver must be prepared to take control of the vehicle (by accelerating or braking)
at all times.

If Traffic Jam Assist does not function as described in this chapter, do not use the system
and go to a qualified workshop.
If there is a fault in the system, visit a qualified workshop and have the system checked.

Emergency Assist
Emergency Assist detects a lack of
activity on the part of the driver and can
keep the vehicle in lane automatically,
or brake the vehicle to a standstill if
required. The system can therefore
actively help to prevent an accident.
Emergency Assist is an extension of the lane keeping system (Lane Assist) ⇒ Lane keeping
system (Lane Assist) , and combines this function with the Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC)

⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) . Please therefore read both these chapters and observe the
information about the system limits and warnings.

Description
If there is no driver activity, Emergency Assist prompts the driver to take control of the vehicle again
by visual and acoustic warnings and by braking jolts.
If the driver remains inactive, the system automatically controls the accelerator, brake and steering
to slow the vehicle down and keep it in lane ⇒

. If there is sufficient stopping distance, the

system decelerates the vehicle to a complete stop and switches on the electronic parking brake
automatically ⇒ Electronic parking brake .
When Emergency Assist is actively controlling the vehicle, the hazard warning lights are switched
on and the vehicle performs slight snaking movements within its lane to warn other road users.
The hazard warning lights can be deactivated by pressing the accelerator or brake, by making a
steering intervention or, depending on the situation, by pressing the button for the hazard warning
lights.
When Emergency Assist has been triggered, the system is unavailable until after the ignition has
been switched off and then on again.

Prerequisites
• The lane keeping system and ACC are switched on.
• The selector lever is in position D/S or in the Tiptronic gate.
• The system has detected a lane marking on both the right and left sides of the vehicle

⇒ Fig. 147 .

Switching Emergency Assist on and off
Emergency Assist is activated automatically when the lane keeping system ⇒ Lane keeping system
(Lane Assist) is switched on.

Conditions for deactivating Emergency Assist
The following conditions can prevent Emergency Assist from reacting, or can cause it to deactivate
automatically:
• If the driver activates the accelerator, brake or steering.
• If one of the prerequisites for operation of the lane keeping system ⇒ Lane keeping system
(Lane Assist) or ACC ⇒ Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) is no longer fulfilled.

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in Emergency Assist cannot overcome the laws of
physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. The driver is always
responsible for controlling the vehicle.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Your hands should always be on the steering wheel so that you can steer at any time.
• Emergency Assist cannot prevent accidents and serious injuries on its own.
• If the camera's field of view is dirty, covered or damaged, the function of the lane
keeping system may be impaired.
• Emergency Assist does not react to persons, animals or vehicles crossing or
approaching in the same lane.

WARNING
If Emergency Assist is triggered unexpectedly, it can result in accidents and serious
injuries.
• If there is a malfunction in the Emergency Assist system, switch off the lane keeping
system (Lane Assist). This will also switch off Emergency Assist ⇒ Lane keeping
system (Lane Assist) .
• Go to a qualified workshop and have the system checked. Volkswagen recommends
using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Lane change system (Side Assist) incl. Rear Traffic
Alert
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Driving with the lane change system
⇒ Rear Traffic Alert
⇒ Troubleshooting

The lane change system with Rear
Traffic Alert provides assistance for the
driver when checking for traffic behind
the vehicle.
Radar sensors monitor the area behind the vehicle ⇒ Vehicle overviews . The system measures the
distance and speed difference in relation to other vehicles and informs the driver by means of visual
signals in the exterior mirrors.

The integrated Rear Traffic Alert provides assistance when reversing out of a parking space and
manoeuvring.

System limits
Use the lane keeping system only on paved roads.
The lane change system may interpret the traffic situation incorrectly in the following driving
situations, for example:
• In tight bends.
• When driving in the middle of two lanes.
• When road lanes are of varying width.
• At the brow of a hill.
• In poor weather conditions.
• Where there are special roadside structures, e.g. high or offset crash barriers.

WARNING
The intelligent technology of the lane change system including Rear Traffic Alert cannot
overcome the laws of physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Never let
the extra convenience afforded by the lane change system including Rear Traffic Alert
tempt you into taking any risks when driving. Always take care when using the lane
change system and the Rear Traffic Alert as you could otherwise cause accidents or
injuries. The system is not a substitute for the full concentration of the driver.
• Adapt your speed and distance from the vehicles ahead to suit visibility, weather, road
and traffic conditions.
• Your hands should always be on the steering wheel so that you can steer at any time.
• Pay attention to the visual displays in the exterior mirror housing and in the instrument
cluster display, and respond to the commands.
• Always pay close attention to what is happening around the vehicle.
• Never use the lane change system including Rear Traffic Alert if the radar sensors are
dirty, covered or damaged. These circumstances can impair the proper functioning of
the system.
• It may be hard to see the display in the exterior mirror in direct sunlight.

You can save some settings in the user accounts of the personalisation function

⇒ Personalisation .

Driving with the lane change system

Fig. 148 In the exterior mirror housing: visual displays for the lane change system.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on and off
• By means of the Assist systems menu in the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster
operation .
• OR: depending on the vehicle equipment, by means of the button for the driver assist systems

⇒ Button for driver assist systems .
• OR: depending on the vehicle equipment, in the Driver assistance menu in the Infotainment
system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .
When the lane change system is switched on, the yellow indicator lamp in the exterior mirror
housing lights up once briefly ⇒ Fig. 148 .
This most recent system setting is retained even after the ignition has been switched off and on.

Function
When switched on, the lane change system is active from a speed of around 15 km/h (9 mph). The
lane change system is deactivated at a vehicle speed below 10 km/h (6 mph).

In the following driving situations, the yellow indicator lamp lights up in the housing of the respective
exterior mirror:
• If your vehicle is being overtaken.
• When overtaking another vehicle with a speed difference of up to approximately 15 km/h
(9 mph). No display will be shown if the takeover manoeuvre is much faster.
The yellow indicator lamp flashes if a possible critical situation is detected when you indicate in the
direction of the detected vehicle.
The quicker another vehicle approaches, the earlier there is a corresponding display in the exterior
mirror.

Lane change system Side Assist Plus
If the vehicle is equipped with a lane keeping system and the system is switched on, the driver is
warned by a corrective steering intervention when changing lanes during a possible critical situation
(information level, warning level). The steering intervention also occurs when the turn signal is
activated for the corresponding direction. If the steering intervention is overridden by the driver, the
steering wheel vibrates to give an additional warning.

Automatic deactivation
The lane change system will switch off automatically if the radar sensors are permanently covered.
This can be caused by a layer of ice or snow in front of the radar sensor, for example.
A text message will be shown on the instrument cluster display.
If the lane change system sensor has been automatically deactivated, the system cannot be
activated until the ignition has been switched off and back on again.
The lane change system and Rear Traffic Alert are switched off automatically when the factoryfitted towing bracket is electrically connected with a trailer or similar ⇒ Trailer towing . The lane
change system and Rear Traffic Alert are automatically switched on again when the trailer is
unhitched from the vehicle. The lane change system and Rear Traffic Alert must be switched off
manually if a non-factory-fitted towing bracket is used.

Brightness
The brightness of the visual display will automatically adapt to the light levels.
The basic brightness level can be set in the Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display in the
Infotainment system .
The lane change system is not active during the setting procedure.

Rear Traffic Alert

Fig. 149 Rear Traffic Alert: monitored area around the vehicle leaving the parking space.

Fig. 150 Display in the Infotainment system: Rear Traffic Alert.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on and off
• By means of the Assist systems menu in the instrument cluster ⇒ Instrument cluster
operation .

• OR: depending on the vehicle equipment, by means of the button for the driver assist systems

⇒ Button for driver assist systems .
• OR: depending on the vehicle equipment, in the Driver assistance menu in the Infotainment
system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .

Function
Rear Traffic Alert monitors the traffic crossing behind the vehicle when reversing out of a parking
space or manoeuvring. Rear Traffic Alert functions using radar sensors in the rear bumper.
Key to ⇒ Fig. 150 :
Critical situation. Do not drive on!

Possible critical situation.

Detection of a critical situation can also take place acoustically:
• A warning signal will sound and a text message will be displayed in the instrument cluster for
vehicles without Park Distance Control.
• A warning signal will sound with the continuous Park Distance Control tone if Park Distance
Control is installed in the vehicle. If the Park Distance Control is deactivated, no warning can be
given to the driver and the Rear Traffic Alert system will also be switched off temporarily.
If there is a fault in the system's scanned area, the yellow indicator lamp lights up .

Automatic braking intervention to minimise damage
If Rear Traffic Alert detects an approaching road user and the driver has not pressed the brake, the
system can brake automatically.
The Rear Traffic Alert helps the driver to prevent damage by initiating an automatic braking
intervention. Automatic braking intervention takes place when reversing at speeds of between
1-12 km/h (1-7 mph). The vehicle is held stationary for up to two seconds after vehicle standstill has
been detected.
After automatic braking intervention is activated to prevent damage to the vehicle, the system
requires approximately ten seconds before it can activate another automatic braking intervention.
The automatic braking intervention can be interrupted by pressing the accelerator or brake pedal
sharply and taking control of the vehicle.

WARNING
The intelligent technology of the lane change system including Rear Traffic Alert cannot
overcome the laws of physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Do not
let the auxiliary function of the Rear Traffic Alert tempt you to take any risks while driving
– this can cause accidents. The system is not a substitute for the full concentration of the
driver.
• Never use the system with impaired vision or in unpredictable traffic situations, e.g. on
extremely busy roads or across several lanes.
• Always pay attention to the area around the vehicle – cyclists and pedestrians are
often not clearly detected.
• The Rear Traffic Alert will not always independently bring the vehicle to a complete
stop.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No sensor visibility, error message, system switches itself off
• Clean the radar sensors or remove stickers or accessories from the radar sensors ⇒ Caring for
and cleaning the vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The radar sensors are dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The sensor visibility
may be impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The prerequisites for system operation must be met ⇒ System limits .
• The radar sensors are covered by water.
• The vehicle is damaged in the area of the radar sensors, e.g. caused by parking collisions.
• The detection ranges of the radar sensors are blocked by add-on parts, e.g. bicycle carriers.
• Changes have been made to the paintwork in the area of the radar sensors or structural
modifications have been made, e.g. on the vehicle front end or the running gear.
• Tinting foils have been retrofitted on the side windows.

Parking and manoeuvring
Parking
Stopping the vehicle
Always park the vehicle in the specified order.
Always stop the vehicle on a suitable surface ⇒

.

• Bring the vehicle to a stop. On vehicles with a manual gearbox, fully depress the clutch.
• Press and hold the brake pedal.
®

• With a DSG dual clutch gearbox, move the selector lever to position P.
• Switch on the electronic parking brake ⇒ Electronic parking brake .
• Stop the engine and switch off the ignition ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine . The indicator
lamp

in the instrument cluster display must light up red.

• With a manual gearbox, select first gear for flat ground and uphill inclines, or reverse gear for
downhill inclines, and then release the clutch.
• Locking the steering column ⇒ Steering
• Take your left foot off the brake.
• Make sure that all vehicle occupants leave the vehicle.
• Get out of the vehicle. Take all vehicle keys with you.
• Lock the vehicle.

Parking on uphill and downhill gradients
Turn the steering wheel so that the front wheels will roll against the kerb if the parked vehicle starts
to move.

WARNING
The components of the exhaust system become very hot. This can cause fires and serious
injuries.
• Never park the vehicle where parts of the exhaust system can come into contact with
inflammable material underneath the vehicle, e.g. undergrowth, leaves, dry grass, spilt
fuel, oil etc.

WARNING
The vehicle may roll away if you leave and park the vehicle incorrectly. This can cause
accidents and serious injuries.
• Before leaving the vehicle, make sure that the electronic parking brake is switched on
and that the

indicator light lights up red on the instrument cluster display when

the ignition is switched off.
• Never remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock when the vehicle is in motion. The
steering lock may be activated and you will no longer be able to steer or control the
vehicle.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle. They could
switch off the electronic parking brake, or move the selector lever or gearshift lever,
and thus set the vehicle in motion.
• Always take all vehicle keys with you every time you leave the vehicle. The engine can
be started and electrical equipment such as the window controls can be operated. This
can cause serious injury.
• Never leave children or people requiring assistance alone in the vehicle. They could
become trapped in the vehicle in an emergency and may not be able to get themselves
to safety. For example, locked vehicles may be subjected to very high or very low
temperatures depending on the season. This can cause serious injuries and illness or
fatalities, especially among small children.

NOTICE
• Always take care when driving in car parks with protruding kerbstones or bollards.
Objects that protrude from the ground can damage the bumper and other components
when parking the vehicle or driving out of a parking space. Stop before the wheels
touch the fixed boundaries or kerbs.
• Drive carefully through dips in the road, over driveways, ramps, kerbstones and other
objects. Low-lying vehicle components such as the bumper, spoiler and parts of the
running gear, engine or exhaust system could be damaged.

Please adhere to relevant legislation when stopping and parking your vehicle.

Electronic parking brake
Operating the electronic parking brake

Fig. 151 In centre console: button for the electronic parking brake.

Switching on
• When the vehicle is stationary, pull and hold the

button.

• The electronic parking brake is switched on when the indicator lamp in the button ⇒ Fig. 151
(arrow) and the red indicator lamp

on the instrument cluster display are lit up.

• Release the button.

Switching off
• Switch on the ignition.
• Depress the brake pedal and press the

button or gently press the accelerator when the

engine is running.
• The indicator lamp in the button ⇒ Fig. 151 (arrow) and the red indicator lamp

in the

instrument cluster display will go out.

Automatic switch-off for the electronic parking brake when driving off
The electronic parking brake switches off automatically if one of the following situations occurs
when the driver door is closed:
®

• In vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox: engage or change a position.
• In vehicles with a manual gearbox: fully depress the clutch before pulling off.

Moving off on steep uphill gradients or with increased vehicle weight
You can prevent the electronic parking brake from switching off automatically by pulling the
button upwards and holding it while pulling away.
If higher engine power is required to move off, the electronic parking brake will be deactivated only
when you release the

button.

This can make it easier to move off with a high trailer weight ⇒ Trailer towing .

Automatic switch-on of the electronic parking brake if not activated
properly when the driver leaves the vehicle
®

On vehicles with DSG dual clutch gearbox, the electronic parking brake may switch itself on
automatically if the system detects that the driver has not left the vehicle correctly.

Emergency braking function
The emergency braking function should only be used in those situations where the vehicle cannot
be stopped using the foot brake ⇒

!

The vehicle will brake strongly as long as the
at the same time.

button is pulled. A signal tone can be heard

WARNING
The incorrect use of the electronic parking brake can cause accidents and serious
injuries.
• Never use the electronic parking brake to brake the vehicle, except in emergencies.
The braking distance is considerably longer as only the rear wheels are braked. Always
use the foot brake.
• Never activate the accelerator from the engine compartment if a position or gear has
been selected and the engine is running. The vehicle could move, even if the electronic
parking brake is applied.

WARNING
Exiting the vehicle incorrectly can cause the vehicle to roll away. This can cause
accidents, serious injuries and damage to property.
• Always park the vehicle in the specified order ⇒ Parking .
• Before leaving the vehicle, make sure that the electronic parking brake is switched on
and that the

indicator light lights up red on the instrument cluster display when

the ignition is switched off.

Troubleshooting
Warning and indicator lamps on the instrument cluster display
Fault in electronic parking brake. Go to a qualified workshop.

Electronic parking brake does not switch off
The electronic parking brake will not switch itself off if the prerequisites for switching off are not met
or the 12-volt vehicle battery is discharged. Use jump leads ⇒ Jump starting .

Noises of the electronic parking brake
• Noises may be heard when the electronic parking brake is switched on or off.
• If the electronic parking brake has not been used for a long period, the system will carry out
occasional automatic and acoustic checks when the vehicle is parked.

Auto Hold function

Fig. 152 In the centre console: button for the Auto Hold function.

Description of the Auto Hold function
The Auto Hold function can hold the vehicle stationary. The vehicle does not have to be held on the
foot brake.
Old: The Auto Hold function is active when the indicator lamp in the

⇒ Fig. 152 (arrow) lights up yellow and the indicator lamp

button

in the instrument cluster display

lights up green.
New: The activated Auto Hold function holds the vehicle stationary when the

indicator lamp

lights up green on the instrument cluster display.
The Auto Hold function stops holding the vehicle when it starts to move away.
If any of the conditions for the Auto Hold function change while the vehicle is stationary, the Auto
Hold function will switch off automatically. The green indicator lamp
display then goes out together with the yellow indicator lamp in the

in the instrument cluster
button.

Switching on the Auto Hold function
The Auto Hold function can be switched on when the driver door is closed and the engine has been
started.
• Press the

button ⇒

. The indicator lamp

⇒ Fig. 152

in the button (arrow) lights up yellow. The Auto Hold function is operational, but the vehicle is
not necessarily held stationary ⇒

.

®

DSG : if the gear selector lever is moved to position N, the Auto Hold function will not be switched
on or will be switched off. As a result, the vehicle will not be held securely in a stationary position ⇒
.

Holding the vehicle stationary with the Auto Hold function
• Make sure that the Auto Hold function is operational. The indicator lamp in the
button lights up yellow.
• Brake the vehicle to bring it to a standstill ⇒ Parking .
• Manual gearbox: disengage the clutch and either keep the clutch fully depressed or shift to
neutral.
• Release the brake. The indicator lamp

will light up greenon the instrument cluster display.

The vehicle is being held stationary by the Auto Hold function ⇒

.

Switching off the Auto Hold function
button ⇒

• Press the

. The indicator lamp in the button

⇒ Fig. 152 (arrow) switches off.
The electronic parking brake switches on automatically to hold the vehicle securely. However, the
electronic parking brake will not switch on if the brake pedal is depressed when the Auto Hold
function is switched off ⇒

.

Switching off the Auto Hold function temporarily using the

button

It can sometimes be necessary to turn the Auto Hold function off temporarily to enable the vehicle
to roll more easily, for example when manoeuvring.
• With the engine switched on, depress the brake pedal.
• Press the

button. The Auto Hold function is deactivated.

The Auto Hold function will be reactivated as soon as the brake pedal is depressed again when the
vehicle has come to a standstill.

The system's limits
If the clutch grinds while the ignition is switched off or the driver door is open, the vehicle cannot be
secured against rolling away with the Auto Hold function or the electronic parking brake in certain
circumstances ⇒

. After switching off the ignition or opening the driver door, make sure

that the indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster display lights up red. The electronic

parking brake is switched on.

WARNING
The intelligent Auto Hold function cannot overcome the laws of physics, and operates
only within the limits of the system. Never let the extra convenience afforded by the Auto
Hold function tempt you into taking any risks when driving.
• Make sure that the indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster display lights up green

or red if you want to hold the vehicle securely. The vehicle is being held by the
Auto Hold function if the green indicator lamp is lit and by the electronic parking brake
if the red warning lamp is lit.
• Never leave the vehicle if the engine is running and the Auto Hold function is switched
on.
• The Auto Hold function cannot hold the vehicle in all hill start situations or brake it
sufficiently on all slopes going downhill, e.g. if the ground is slippery or icy.

NOTICE
Switch off the Auto Hold function before driving into a car wash. Damage may otherwise
be caused by automatic activation of the electronic parking brake.

Safety notes on the parking systems
The parking systems include the following:
• Park Distance Control ⇒ Park Distance Control .
• Rear view camera system (Rear View) ⇒ Rear view camera system (Rear View) .
• Park Assist ⇒ Park Assist .
• Area View ⇒ Area View .
• Trailer manoeuvring system (Trailer Assist) ⇒ Trailer Assist
The systems available depend on the equipment in the vehicle.
Always observe and follow the general safety notes when using the parking systems.

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in the parking systems cannot overcome the laws of
physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Never let the extra
convenience afforded by the parking systems tempt you into taking any risks when
driving. The parking systems cannot replace the full concentration of the driver.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Unintentional vehicle movements can cause serious injury.
• Keep looking in the direction in which you are parking and at the relevant area
surrounding the vehicle.
• Do not allow the displays in the instrument cluster and the images shown in the
Infotainment system to distract you from the traffic.
• Always monitor the area around the vehicle as the parking systems will not always
detect infants, animals and objects.
• The parking systems have blind spots in which obstacles and people are not
registered.
• External sources of sound and certain surfaces on objects and clothing may influence
the sensors' signals. In certain circumstances, the systems will be unable to detect or
properly detect people and objects.
• Certain objects, for example narrow posts or railings, may be difficult or impossible to
see on the screen because of its low resolution or poor light conditions.
• When approaching objects at high speeds, the parking systems' signals and displays
may not respond quickly enough to emit a warning.

Volkswagen recommends that drivers practise using the parking systems in a traffic-calmed
area or car park to allow them to familiarise themselves with the systems and their functions.

Park Distance Control
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Switching on and off
⇒ Display representation
⇒ Settings
⇒ Troubleshooting

The Park Distance Control system
assists the driver when manoeuvring
and parking.
Park Distance Control detects the distance from an obstacle by means of sensors in the front and
rear bumpers ⇒ Vehicle overviews . If there is an obstacle in the detection range of the sensors, the
system indicates this on the Infotainment system and by means of signal tones.

System limits
The sensors may not always be able to detect objects such as trailer drawbars, thin rails, fences,
posts, trees, very low or high obstacles and open or opening boot lids.
In some cases, dirt and ice on the sensors could be registered as an obstacle.

Switching on and off

Fig. 153 In the centre console: button for switching Park Distance Control on and off (depending on
equipment).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on Park Distance Control
• Select reverse gear.
• OR: press the button

or

.

Park Distance Control switches itself on automatically if the vehicle rolls backwards.
Depending on the vehicle equipment, Park Distance Control can also be activated automatically.

Switching off Park Distance Control
• Press the

or

button.

• OR: drive forwards at a speed of more than 10-15 km/h (6-9 mph).
• OR: move the selector lever to position P.

Automatic activation (depending on equipment)
Park Distance Control also switches itself on if the vehicle approaches an obstacle in the front area
of the vehicle at a speed of less than 15 km/h (9 mph). Automatic activation can be switched on in
the Infotainment system.
Automatic activation functions only when the vehicle speed falls below around 15 km/h (9 mph) for
the first time. Renewed automatic activation is possible after Park Distance Control has been
switched off and then back on again with the button

or

.

Automatic activation can also be reactivated by switching the ignition or electronic parking brake off
and then back on again.

Manoeuvre braking
If the vehicle is equipped with manoeuvre braking, the manoeuvre braking function triggers the
emergency brake as soon as an obstacle is detected while reversing. The manoeuvre braking
function helps to prevent collisions. The vehicle speed must not be higher than 10 km/h (6 mph).
The manoeuvre braking function is activated or deactivated when Park Distance Control is switched
on or off. The manoeuvre braking function is inactive for five metres after a braking operation in the
same direction of travel. The manoeuvre braking function is ready for braking again after changing
gear or position. The same restrictions apply as for Park Distance Control.
Manoeuvre braking is not active if Park Distance Control was activated automatically.
Touch the

function button to switch manoeuvre braking on and off.

Display representation

Fig. 154 Display in the Infotainment system: full-screen mode. The scanned areas depend on the
vehicle equipment level.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The scanned areas are represented by several segments in the Infotainment system ⇒ Fig. 154 .
The closer the vehicle drives towards an obstacle, the closer the segment will move to the vehicle
in the display. Signal tones sound at the same time.
Obstacle close to the vehicle. A continuous tone sounds. Do not drive on!

Obstacle in the

vehicle path. An intermittent tone sounds. The shorter the distance, the shorter the intervals.
Obstacle outside the vehicle path.

Mute signal tones.

on and off (depending on vehicle equipment).

Switch manoeuvre braking

Switch to rear view camera system (depending

on vehicle equipment). / System fault in the monitored area (depending on equipment level).
Only the scanned area to the front of the vehicle is shown on the Infotainment system display in
vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket and a trailer with an electrical connection to the vehicle

⇒ Trailer towing .

Things to note in the area around the vehicle (depending on vehicle
equipment)
The scanned area along the side of the vehicle is automatically hidden in the following situations:
• When a vehicle door is opened.
• TCS is switched off or is taking corrective action.
• If the vehicle is stationary for longer than approximately three minutes.
The vehicle must be moved a few metres forwards or backwards in order to be able to show the
entire area around the vehicle. The missing areas are then scanned and the area around the
vehicle is calculated.

Settings
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Depending on the vehicle equipment, settings for Park Distance Control can be made in the
Infotainment system ⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system .
You can save some settings in the user accounts of the personalisation function. The settings
change automatically when the user account is changed ⇒ Personalisation .

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No sensor visibility, error message, system switches itself off
The sensor area is switched off permanently if a sensor fails.
Any malfunctions in the Park Distance Control system will be indicated by a text message and a
warning tone when first switched on, and by the indicator lamp flashing in the

or

buttons. If the sensors are dirty or covered, the affected sensor cluster will be displayed on the Park
Distance Control screen. A cleaning message (depending on equipment) will also be displayed.
• Clean the sensors or remove stickers or accessories from the sensors and cameras ⇒ Caring
for and cleaning the vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The sensors are dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The sensor visibility may
be impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The system requirements must be met ⇒ System limits .
• The sensors are covered by water.
• The factory-fitted towing bracket is electrically connected with the trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .
• The vehicle is damaged in the area of the sensors, e.g. caused by parking collisions.
• The detection ranges of the sensors are blocked by add-on parts, e.g. bicycle carriers.
• Changes have been made to the paintwork in the area of the sensors or structural modifications
have been made, e.g. on the vehicle front end or the running gear.
• The ultrasound signal is subject to interference from external noise sources, e.g. rough tarmac
surface or cobblestones.

Response to all circumstances
• Switch off the system temporarily.
• Check whether any of the causes described below apply.
• You can switch the system back on again once you have rectified the cause of the problem.
• If the system still fails to respond as expected, have the system checked by a qualified
workshop.

Rear view camera system (Rear View)

Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Switching on and off
⇒ Display representation
⇒ Prerequisites
⇒ Parking perpendicular to the road (mode 1)
⇒ Parking parallel to the road (mode 2)
⇒ Troubleshooting

The rear view camera system in the
rear of the vehicle makes it easier for
the driver to see behind the vehicle and
provides support for parking
manoeuvres.
The rear view camera system shows the area behind the vehicle on the Infotainment system
screen. Depending on the operating mode, orientation lines support the view to the rear.

Modes for the rear view camera system
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the following operating modes are available:

• Perpendicular parking (mode 1): reverse parking perpendicular to the road.
• Parallel parking (mode 2): reverse parking parallel to the road.
• Trailer support (mode 3): support when hitching a trailer to the vehicle.
• Crossing traffic (mode 4): observing crossing traffic.

System limits
The rear view camera system shows only two-dimensional images on the screen. The lack of depth
of field means that potholes and protruding objects on the ground may only be detected with
difficulty, or may not be detected at all.
The rear view camera system may not always be able to detect objects such as thin rails, fences,
posts, trees etc. This could result in damage to your vehicle.
The system displays the orientation lines irrespective of the area surrounding the vehicle. There is
no automatic obstacle detection. Drivers must judge for themselves whether the vehicle will fit into
the parking space.

WARNING
Using images from the camera to estimate the distance from obstacles (people, vehicles
etc.) is inaccurate and could cause accidents and severe injuries.
• Camera lenses enlarge and distort the field of vision and make objects appear different
and inaccurate on the screen.

Switching on and off
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on the rear view camera system
• Select reverse gear.
• OR: press the

button.

Switching off the rear view camera system
Drive forwards at a speed of at least 15 km/h (9 mph).

Display representation
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The image of the rear view camera system is displayed in the Infotainment system.
The functions and displays depend on the vehicle equipment and may differ from each other.
The rear view camera system hides all orientation lines and guiding functions when the factoryfitted towing bracket is electrically connected to the trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .

Settings
You can make settings by means of the function buttons when the rear view camera system is
switched on. Some setting options depend on the vehicle equipment.
Function buttons and symbols of the rear view camera system:
xClose current display.

Switch to perpendicular parking (mode 1) ⇒ Parking perpendicular to

the road (mode 1) .

Switch to parallel parking (mode 2) ⇒ Parking parallel to the road

(mode 2) .

Switch to trailer support (mode 3).

display: brightness, contrast, colour.
Control .

Switch to crossing traffic (mode 4).

Adjust

Switch to Park Distance Control ⇒ Park Distance

Show Park Distance Control display.

Hide Park Distance Control display.

Switch Park Distance Control sound on and off.

Turn steering wheel (mode 2).

Stop

vehicle (mode 2).

Orientation lines
Green horizontal line: extension of the vehicle.
Red lateral line: a yellow line turns red if a change in the steering input is necessary (mode 2).
Yellow lines: vehicle path depending on the steering angle.
Yellow auxiliary boxes: front and rear limits of the parking space (mode 2).
Green lateral line: turning point when driving into a parking space (mode 2).

Red and green frames: vehicle outline (mode 2).

Trailer support (mode 3)
In vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket, the trailer support function can be used when
approaching a trailer drawbar. The powerful zoom level used in this mode means that obstacles
behind the vehicle appear very late.
Auxiliary lines are shown on the Infotainment system.
Red line: position of the towing bracket.
Green lines: distance to towing bracket. The distance intervals are around 0.1 m in each case.
Orange line: predicted path of the towing bracket, depending on the steering angle.

Crossing traffic (mode 4)
This display representation helps the driver to monitor traffic behind the vehicle and can be used in
situations such as driving out of a garage or narrow exits, for example.

Prerequisites
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following prerequisites must be met for detection of a parking space:
• Do not exceed a speed of approximately 15 km/h (9 mph).
• Width of the parking space: vehicle width + 0.2 m.
• Distance: position the vehicle approximately one metre from the parking space (mode 2 only).
• Length of the parking space: approx. 8 m (mode 2 only).
The following conditions must be met in order to display a correct image:
• The boot lid is closed.
• The surrounding area has a flat surface.
• Vehicle does not have a heavy load at the rear.

Parking perpendicular to the road (mode 1)

Fig. 155 Infotainment system screen display: parking using the rear view camera system, mode 1.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 155 :
Road.
Parking space.
Side limit of the parking space.
Rear limit of the parking space.

Driving into a parking space
• Press the

or

button before driving past the selected parking space.

• With the rear view camera system switched on and operational, select mode 1
• Position the vehicle in front of the parking space ⇒ Fig. 155 ②
• Steer so that the yellow lines ③ lead into the parking space
must be aligned with the side limit lines ③.

.

.
. The green and yellow lines

• Stop when the red line reaches the rear limit ④

.

Parking parallel to the road (mode 2)

Fig. 156 Infotainment system display: rear view camera system, mode 2.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 156 :
Road.
Obstacle or auxiliary box.
Side limit of the parking space.
Obstacle or auxiliary box.

Driving into a parking space
• If applicable, press the

button before driving past the selected parking space.

• With the rear view camera system switched on and operational, select mode 2

.

• Activate the turn signal for the side of the street on which you want to park.
• Position the vehicle parallel to the parking row at a distance of around one metre.
• If obstacles protrude from the auxiliary boxes, look for a new parking space or reposition the
vehicle.
• Select reverse gear. A red frame shows the target position of your vehicle.
• Turn the steering wheel so that the red frame moves between the auxiliary boxes and turns
green. Hold the steering wheel in this position and start moving slowly.
• Reverse when an arrow appears. Yellow and green lines are displayed. The arrow shows the
distance still to be covered.
• Leave the steering wheel in the set position while reversing. Make necessary changes to the
steering angle when a steering instruction is displayed next to the steering wheel symbol

.

• Reverse until the stop sign is displayed or the green line is aligned with the side limit of the
parking space.
• Stop the vehicle. Steer in the opposite direction until the steering lock is reached.
• Reverse until the stop symbol is displayed or until the red line reaches the rear limit.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No camera visibility, error message, system switches itself off
• Clean the camera or remove stickers or accessories from the camera ⇒ Caring for and cleaning
the vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The camera is dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The camera visibility may be
impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The system requirements must be met ⇒ Prerequisites .
• The camera is covered by water.
• The factory-fitted towing bracket is electrically connected with the trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .
• The vehicle is damaged in the area around the camera, e.g. caused by parking collisions.
• The detection range of the camera is blocked by add-on parts, e.g. bicycle carriers.

• Changes have been made to the paintwork around the camera or the construction has been
modified, e.g. vehicle front end or the running gear.

Response to all circumstances
• Switch off the system temporarily.
• Check whether any of the causes described below apply.
• You can switch the system back on again once you have rectified the cause of the problem.
• If the system still fails to respond as expected, have the system checked by a qualified
workshop.

Park Assist
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Prerequisites
⇒ Looking for a parking space
⇒ Driving into a parking space
⇒ Driving out of a parking space
⇒ Troubleshooting

Park Assist shows parking spaces
which are suitable for parking and
assists the driver when driving into and
out of parking spaces.
Park Assist is an extension of Park Distance Control ⇒ Park Distance Control .
Park Assist automatically steers the vehicle. The driver must control the accelerator, gear changes
and brake!
Driving into a parking space using Park Assist takes place in the following steps:
• Look for a parking space.
• Drive into a parking space.

System limits
The sensors may not always be able to detect objects such as trailer drawbars, thin rails, fences,
posts, trees and open or opening boot lids. This can result in damage to your vehicle.
In some cases, dirt and ice on the sensors could be registered as an obstacle.

WARNING
Fast steering wheel movements can cause serious injury.
• During the manoeuvring operation, do not reach for the steering wheel until prompted
to do so by the system.
• Exception: if a dangerous situation occurs, intervene and take over the steering.

NOTICE
Park Assist uses parked vehicles, the kerb and other objects as guidance. Please ensure
that the wheels and tyres are not damaged when parking the vehicle. If necessary, stop the
parking procedure in good time to prevent damage to the vehicle.

Prerequisites
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following prerequisites must be met for driving into and out of parking spaces:
• The traction control system (TCS) must be switched on ⇒ Brake support systems .
• Distance: maintain a distance of 0.5 – -2.0 metres when driving past the parking space.
• The parking space must have at least the dimensions required by Park Assist.
• Speed when driving past the parking space (for parking spaces parallel to the road): not above
40 km/h (25 mph).
• Speed when driving past the parking space (for parking spaces perpendicular to the road): not
above 20 km/h (12 mph).
• Maximum speed: 7 km/h (4 mph). An automatic braking intervention can take place when
driving into a parking space.
The parking manoeuvre can be continued after the automatic brake intervention.

The automatic braking intervention takes place a maximum of once per parking manoeuvre. The
parking manoeuvre will be cancelled if a speed of approximately 7 km/h (4 mph) is exceeded again.

Automatic cancellation of driving in/out of a parking space
Park Assist cancels the manoeuvre for driving into or leaving a parking space if one of the following
situations occurs:
• The

button is pressed.

• The driver intervenes using the steering wheel.
• The driver door is opened.
• The parking operation is not completed within around six minutes.
• There is a system fault.
• TCS is switched off or is taking corrective action.

Automatic braking intervention to minimise damage
In some countries, Park Assist can assist the driver with an automatic braking intervention in certain
situations ⇒

.

Depending on the vehicle equipment and certain conditions, e.g. weather, load or inclination of the
vehicle, Park Assist can automatically brake the vehicle before an obstacle. Following this
intervention, the driver must depress the brake pedal. An automatic braking intervention is activated
to minimise damage and ends the parking manoeuvre.

WARNING
Do not let the Park Assist braking intervention function tempt you to take any risks while
driving – this can cause accidents. The system is not a substitute for the full
concentration of the driver.
• Park Assist has system-related limitations. In some situations, the automatic braking
intervention function is only able to intervene in a limited way or not at all.
• You should always be prepared to brake the vehicle yourself.
• The automatic braking intervention is ended after approximately 1.5 seconds. Depress
the brake pedal of the vehicle yourself following the automatic braking intervention.

Looking for a parking space

Fig. 157 Instrument cluster display: display of parking modes.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Park Assist has three parking modes ⇒ Fig. 157 (illustration).
Reverse parallel parking.

Reverse perpendicular parking.

Forward perpendicular parking.

• Drive slowly past a row of parked vehicles, paying attention to the traffic.
• Press the

button. Park Assist automatically searches for a suitable parking space on

the front passenger side.
• Stop when Park Assist displays a recommended parking mode on the instrument cluster
display.
• Drive into the parking space when a corresponding prompt ⇒ Fig. 158⑤ is shown on the
instrument cluster display ⇒ Driving into a parking space .
If you want Park Assist to search for a parking space on the opposite side of the road, operate the
turn signal for the corresponding side.

Changing parking mode
If Park Assist has found other alternative parking modes, these will be displayed in a miniature
view. You can select these successively by pressing the

button. Park Assist will switch

itself off after selection of all found parking modes. The originally recommended parking mode is
offered when the

button is pressed again.

Forward perpendicular parking
If you wish to drive forwards into a perpendicular parking space, select the parking mode Forward
perpendicular parking ⇒ Fig. 157 by pressing the

button (if found by Park Assist).

Park Assist can be activated retroactively. If a suitable parking space was driven past before,
it is displayed.

Driving into a parking space

Fig. 158 On the instrument cluster display: parking perpendicular to the road. Looking for a parking
space, positioning the vehicle for parking and manoeuvring.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 158 (reverse perpendicular parking mode):
Prompt to drive forward
Your vehicle
Parked vehicle or obstacle.
Parking space detected
Prompt to select reverse gear.
Prompt to press the brake pedal.
Progress bar Symbolically shows the relative distance still to be driven.
The prerequisites for parking space selection must be met ⇒ Prerequisites and the vehicle must be
stationary.
• Release the steering wheel ⇒ .
• Select reverse gear when a reverse arrow appears on the instrument cluster display.
• Carefully press the accelerator.
• Brake when an acoustic signal prompting you to change direction sounds, an arrow

⇒ Fig. 158①

lights up, the white symbol

lights up or a message is displayed.

• Drive forwards until an acoustic signal sounds or until the prompt to reverse is shown on the
instrument cluster display.
• Repeat reversing and driving forwards until a corresponding message is displayed on the
instrument cluster. A signal tone may also sound.

Driving out of a parking space

Fig. 159 On the instrument cluster display: driving out of a parallel parking space.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 159 :
Stationary vehicle.
Your vehicle with reverse gear engaged

Progress bar. Symbolically shows the relative distance still to be driven.
Direction indicator for next manoeuvre for driving out of the parking space.
Park Assist can drive out of parallel parking spaces.
Requirements for driving out of a parking space while using Park Assist must be fulfilled

⇒ Prerequisites .
• Press the

button.

• Use the turn signal and main beam lever to select the direction (left or right) in which you would
like to drive out of the parking space.
• Select reverse gear.
• Release the steering wheel when the following message is shown: Steer. intervention active.
Check area around veh.!
• Carefully press the accelerator.
• Brake when an acoustic signal sounds, the white symbol

lights up or when the prompt to

drive forwards appears on the instrument cluster display.
• Depress the brake pedal until Park Assist steering activity has been completed or until the white
symbol

disappears on the instrument cluster display.

• Repeat reversing and driving forwards until a corresponding message is displayed on the
instrument cluster. A signal tone may also sound.
• Take over steering with the steering angle set by Park Assist.
• Drive the vehicle out of the parking space when permitted by the traffic situation.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No sensor visibility, error message, system switches itself off
Park Assist is switched off if a sensor fails.
• Clean the sensors or remove stickers or accessories from the sensors and cameras ⇒ Caring
for and cleaning the vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The sensors are dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The sensor visibility may
be impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The system requirements must be met ⇒ Prerequisites .
• The sensors are covered by water.
• Park Assist cannot be switched on if the factory-fitted towing bracket is electrically connected to
the trailer. For vehicles with the trailer manoeuvring system, this function is switched on when
the

button is operated ⇒ Trailer towing .

• The vehicle is damaged in the area of the sensors, e.g. caused by parking collisions.
• The detection ranges of the sensors are blocked by add-on parts, e.g. bicycle carriers.
• Changes have been made to the paintwork in the area of the sensors or structural modifications
have been made, e.g. on the vehicle front end or the running gear.
• The ultrasound signal is subject to interference from external noise sources, e.g. rough tarmac
surface or cobblestones.

Response to all circumstances
• Switch off the system temporarily.
• Check whether any of the causes described below apply.
• You can switch the system back on again once you have rectified the cause of the problem.
• If the system still fails to respond as expected, have the system checked by a qualified
workshop.

Area View
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Prerequisites
⇒ Switching on and off
⇒ Display representation
⇒ Operating camera views
⇒ Troubleshooting

Area View provides you with an
overview of the area around the vehicle

in real time and allows you to detect
obstacles at an early stage.
The system uses several cameras to create an image which is displayed on the Infotainment
system display.
The functions and displays may differ in vehicles with or without Park Distance Control.

Things to note
The Area View system camera supplies two-dimensional images only. Due to the lack of depth of
field on the screen, potholes and dips in the ground, protruding parts on another vehicle or
protruding objects on the ground may be difficult or impossible to see on the image.
• When driving into or out of an uphill gradient.
• Protruding objects can disappear from the field of view of the cameras.

System limits
The camera may not always be able to detect objects such as trailer drawbars, thin rails, fences,
posts, trees and open or opening boot lids. This can result in damage to your vehicle.
In some cases, dirt and ice on the sensors could be registered as an obstacle.

WARNING
Using images from the camera to estimate the distance from obstacles (people, vehicles
etc.) is inaccurate and could cause accidents and severe injuries.
• Camera lenses enlarge and distort the field of vision and make objects appear different
and inaccurate on the screen.

Prerequisites
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following conditions must be met in order to display a correct image:
• The doors and boot lid must be closed.
• The area around the vehicle must be clear and fully visible.
• The surrounding area has a flat surface.
• Vehicle does not have a heavy load at the rear.

Switching on and off

Fig. 160 In the centre console: button for manually switching on Area View.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Switching on
• Select reverse gear.
• OR: press the

button.

Switching off
• Drive forwards faster than approximately 15 km/h (9 mph).
• OR: press the

button.

Display representation
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The functions and displays depend on the vehicle equipment and may differ from each other.
Area View is shown in two screen areas in the Infotainment system:

• Left screen: the vehicle is shown in the bird's eye view. The view in the right area of the screen
changes when you touch an individual area.
• Right screen: the individual camera images are displayed corresponding to the area selected in
the left screen.
In addition, the available menu options and camera views for the corresponding camera are shown
at the right-hand side of the screen.
Displays the bird's eye view.

Hides the bird's eye view.

Adjusts brightness, contrast and colour.

Switches sound on and off.

3D views.xCloses the current display.

The auxiliary lines and boxes are shown by the system independently of the vehicle surroundings.
There is no detection of obstacles. Drivers must judge for themselves whether the vehicle will fit
into the parking space.
Area View hides all the auxiliary orientation lines in the area of the rear camera when the factoryfitted towing bracket is electrically connected to a trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .

Operating camera views
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Touch the area next to the vehicle.
• Select a corresponding view by means of the function buttons at the edge of the image.
The displayed red lines indicate a distance of approximately 40 cm from the vehicle.

Camera views in front of the vehicle
Crossing traffic.

Perpendicular parking. Orientation lines are displayed as a guide. See

rear view camera system mode 1 ⇒ Rear view camera system (Rear View) .

Off-road.

Camera views next to the vehicle
Both areas next to the vehicle simultaneously.

Driver side only.

Front passenger side only.

Camera views behind the vehicle
Perpendicular parking. Orientation lines are displayed as a guide. See rear view camera
system mode 1 ⇒ Rear view camera system (Rear View) .

Parallel parking. The coloured

auxiliary boxes and lines are provided for orientation. See rear view camera system mode 2 ⇒ Rear
view camera system (Rear View) .

Trailer support. See rear view camera system mode 3

⇒ Rear view camera system (Rear View) .

Crossing traffic. See rear view camera system mode

4 ⇒ Rear view camera system (Rear View) .

3D views
Top view of the vehicle and surroundings. Depending on the vehicle equipment level, the
Park Distance Control vehicle path display may also be shown.
surroundings.

Top view of the vehicle and

Vehicle and surrounding area are shown at an angle from above.

Vehicle and surrounding area are shown from the side.
The viewing angle can be changed by swiping in the direction of the arrows.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No camera visibility, error message, system switches itself off
• Clean the camera or remove the stickers or camera accessories ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the
vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The cameras are dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The camera visibility may
be impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The system requirements must be met ⇒ Prerequisites .
• The cameras are covered by water.
• The vehicle is damaged in the area around the camera, e.g. caused by parking collisions.
• The detection range of the cameras is blocked by add-on parts, e.g. bicycle carriers.
• Changes have been made to the paintwork around the camera or the construction has been
modified, e.g. vehicle front end or the running gear.

Response to all circumstances
• Switch off the system temporarily.
• Check whether any of the causes described below apply.
• You can switch the system back on again once you have rectified the cause of the problem.

• If the system still fails to respond as expected, have the system checked by a qualified
workshop.

Trailer Assist

Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Prerequisites
⇒ Operation
⇒ Troubleshooting

Trailer Assist helps the driver when
reversing or manoeuvring the vehicle
when towing a trailer.
The trailer manoeuvring system steers a trailer by adjustment of the rotary knob for the exterior
mirrors. The driver must control the accelerator, gear changes and brake!

System limits
The camera may not always be able to detect objects such as trailer drawbars, thin rails, fences,
posts, trees and open or opening boot lids. This can result in damage to your vehicle.
The camera must be kept clean and free of ice and snow, and must not be covered up by stickers
or other objects, as this will prevent the system from working properly. The drawbar must not be
covered.
Trailer Assist should only be used when the boot lid is fully closed.

NOTICE
The trailer manoeuvring system does not use the area around the vehicle for orientation.
No obstacle detection takes place. Drivers must judge for themselves whether the trailer
can be manoeuvred safely.
• Always pay close attention to the movements of the trailer and, if required, stop the
manoeuvre to avoid causing any damage. On rare occasions the trailer may behave
differently, even when Trailer Assist is operated correctly.
• Do not rely only on the displays in the instrument cluster.

The trailer manoeuvring system will be automatically ended around ten minutes after
activation. The function will also be ended if no driver interaction is detected within a period of
approximately three minutes.

Prerequisites
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The following prerequisites must be met for the trailer manoeuvring system to function:
• Engine running.
• ESC is switched on.
• Driver door and boot lid are closed.
• Exterior mirrors are not folded in.
• A single- or- two-axle trailer without steered axles is hitched to the vehicle and electrically
connected.
• Vehicle and trailer are stationary.
• Do not exceed the maximum jack-knifing angle.
• The drawbar length has been determined.

Determining the drawbar length
Trailer Assist requires a few turning and cornering manoeuvres to enable it to determine the length
of the drawbar. The more accurately it can determine the length of the drawbar, the bigger the
angles available when manoeuvring. The trailer manoeuvring system divides the available
maximum limit positions on the angle display into four steps: approx. 30°, 45°, 60° and 75°.

For technical reasons, the trailer manoeuvring system cannot always detect trailers with LED
rear lights correctly.

Operation

Fig. 161 Operating the trailer manoeuvring system on the instrument cluster display: setting the
angle; reversing.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 161 :
Rotary knob for adjusting the exterior mirror.
Align the trailer to the left.
Align the trailer to the right.
Move the vehicle in the direction of the trailer.
Current trailer position.
Target trailer position.
Zero position on the angle display.

Manoeuvring the vehicle and trailer
The checklist conditions are met ⇒ Prerequisites .
• Select reverse gear.
• Press the

button.

• Release the steering wheel ⇒

.

• Tilt the rotary knob until the desired direction is reached. A representation of the current position
of the vehicle and trailer is shown on the instrument cluster display for orientation
purposes ⇒ Fig. 161

.

• Reverse slowly by pressing the accelerator. Check area around vehicle!
• Correct the angle with the rotary knob if necessary. Press the rotary knob to the left and right –
the vehicle combination moves to the left or right. Press the rotary knob to the rear – the vehicle
follows the trailer.
• Reverse and drive forwards until the required position is reached.
• The manoeuvring operation has been completed when a corresponding message is displayed
on the instrument cluster. A signal tone may also sound.

Automatic braking intervention
Trailer Assist helps the driver by initiating an automatic braking intervention in certain situations.
The driver is responsible for braking in time ⇒

.

An automatic braking intervention may occur and the function may be cancelled in the following
situations:
• If a certain speed is exceeded.
• If the driver takes hold of the steering wheel. The vehicle is automatically braked to standstill.
• If the

button is pressed while manoeuvring or the driver door is opened.

WARNING
Fast steering wheel movements can cause serious injury.
• During the manoeuvring operation, do not reach for the steering wheel until prompted
to do so by the system.
• Exception: if a dangerous situation occurs, intervene and take over the steering.

WARNING
Do not let the automatic braking intervention tempt you to take any risks while driving, as
this can cause accidents. The system is not a substitute for the full concentration of the
driver.
• Trailer Assist has system-related limitations. In some situations, the automatic braking
intervention function is only able to intervene in a limited way or not at all.
• You should always be prepared to brake the vehicle yourself.
• The automatic braking intervention is ended after approximately 1.5 seconds at vehicle
standstill. Depress the brake pedal of the vehicle yourself following the automatic
braking intervention.

The exterior mirrors cannot be adjusted while Trailer Assist is active. The stored exterior
mirror setting can be activated ⇒ Mirrors .

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

No camera visibility, error message, system switches itself off
• Clean the camera or remove stickers or accessories from the camera ⇒ Caring for and cleaning
the vehicle exterior .
• Check whether any damage is visible.

The system is not responding as expected
• The camera is dirty ⇒ Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior . The camera visibility may be
impaired by dirt and snow or also residue from cleaning agents or coatings.
• The system requirements must be met ⇒ Prerequisites .
• The camera is covered by water.
• The vehicle is damaged in the area around the camera, e.g. caused by parking collisions.
• The detection range of the camera is blocked by add-on parts, e.g. bicycle carriers.
• Changes have been made to the paintwork around the camera or the construction has been
modified, e.g. vehicle front end or the running gear.

Response to all circumstances
• Switch off the system temporarily.
• Check whether any of the causes described below apply.
• You can switch the system back on again once you have rectified the cause of the problem.
• If the system still fails to respond as expected, have the system checked by a qualified
workshop.

Brake support systems
Information on brake support systems
The vehicle is fitted with brake support systems. The systems can support the driver in critical
driving or braking situations. Brake support systems cannot overcome the limits of physics and
cannot always keep the vehicle under control in every single critical driving or braking situation. The
driver is responsible for driving safety ⇒

.

Driving with brake support systems
The brake support systems work when the engine is running. They do not need to be operated
separately.
The brake pedal may pulsate or noises may occur while the brake support systems are regulating.
Continue to apply the necessary amount of brake pressure. Apply the necessary pressure to the
brake pedal consistently. If necessary, steer the vehicle while the brake pedal is depressed.

Electronic Stability Control (ESC)
ESC helps to reduce the risk of skidding and to improve driving stability in certain driving situations

⇒

.

Depending on the vehicle equipment, ESC can be switched to a Sport mode ⇒ Switching TCS on
and off .
When ESC is regulating, the yellow indicator lamp

is shown on the instrument cluster display.

Traction control system (TCS)
The TCS reduces the drive output if wheelspin occurs and adapts the output to suit road surface
conditions. The TCS makes it easier to pull away, accelerate and drive up hills.
Depending on the vehicle equipment, the TCS can be switched off in exceptional circumstances

⇒ Switching TCS on and off .
When the TCS is regulating, the yellow indicator lamp

is shown on the instrument cluster

display.

Anti-lock brake system
The anti-lock brake system can prevent the wheels from locking when the brakes are applied up
until the point where the vehicle is nearly stationary and assists the driver in steering the vehicle
and keeping it under control.

Brake assist system
The brake assist system can help to reduce the stopping distance. The brake assist system
reinforces brake pressure when the driver depresses the brake pedal quickly in an emergency
situation.
Do not reduce the pressure on the brake pedal when the brake assist system is regulating. If you
reduce the pressure on the brake pedal, the brake assist system will switch off the brake servo.

Electronic differential lock (EDL and XDS)
EDL brakes the wheel that has lost traction and distributes the driving force to the other drive
wheels.
The EDL switches off automatically under unusually heavy loads to prevent the disc brake from
overheating. The EDL switches back on again automatically as soon as the brake has cooled down.
XDS applies pressure to the brake of the wheel on the inside of the bend. This will improve traction,
helping the vehicle to remain in the required lane longer.

Automatic Post-Collision Braking System
In the event of an accident, the Automatic Post-Collision Braking System can help the driver to
reduce the risk of skidding, and the danger of secondary collisions, through automatic braking.
The Automatic Post-Collision Braking System functions only in front, side and rear collisions when
the airbag control unit detects a corresponding trigger threshold during the accident.
The ESC brakes the vehicle automatically, provided that the hydraulic braking system, the ESC and
the electrical system are undamaged in the accident and remain functional.
The following actions override automatic braking in the event of an accident:
• When the driver depresses the accelerator. No automatic braking occurs.
• When the brake pressure transmitted through the depressed brake pedal is greater than the
brake pressure provided by the system. The vehicle is braked manually.

WARNING
The intelligent technology used in brake support systems cannot overcome the laws of
physics, and functions only within the limits of the system. Driving fast on icy, slippery or
wet roads can lead to a loss of control of the vehicle and could cause serious injury to the
driver and passengers.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions. Do not let the extra safety afforded by the brake support systems anti-lock
brake system, brake assist system, EDL, TCS and ESC tempt you into taking any risks
when driving.
• The brake support systems cannot defy the laws of motion. Slippery and wet roads will
remain dangerous, even when the ESC and other systems are active.
• Driving too fast on wet roads can cause the wheels to lose contact with the road
surface and aquaplane. The vehicle cannot be braked, steered or controlled once it has
lost contact with the road surface.
• Brake support systems cannot prevent an accident if e.g. you are driving too close to
the vehicle in front or are driving too fast for the specific driving situation.
• Although the brake support systems are very effective and can help to control the
vehicle in difficult driving situations, please always remember that the driving stability
of the vehicle depends on the tyre grip.
• When accelerating on a slippery surface, e.g. on ice and snow, press the accelerator
carefully. The wheels can spin even when brake support systems are active, and this
can lead to a loss of control of the vehicle.

WARNING
The effectiveness of ESC can be reduced considerably if other components and systems
which affect driving dynamics are not serviced properly or are not functioning properly.
This also applies, but not exclusively, to the brakes, tyres and other systems named
above.
• Please always note that modifications and changes to the vehicle can affect the
function of the anti-lock brake system, brake assist system, TCS, EDL and ESC.
• Alterations to the suspension system or the use of non-approved wheel and tyre
combinations can affect the function of the anti-lock brake system, brake assist
system, EDL, TCS and ESC and reduce their effectiveness.
• Suitable tyres are also crucial if ESC is to function optimally ⇒ Wheels and tyres .

WARNING
Driving without the brake servo can considerably increase the braking distance and thus
cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Never allow the vehicle to roll if the engine is switched off.
• If the brake servo does not function or the vehicle is being towed, the brake pedal will
have to be depressed more forcefully as the braking distance will be increased due to
the lack of assistance for the brake system.

Switching TCS on and off

Fig. 162 In the centre console: button for switching TCS on and off manually.

If the vehicle does not have sufficient traction, you can switch off TCS in the following situations:
• When driving in deep snow or on loose surfaces.
• When rocking the vehicle backwards and forwards to free it from mud.
Then switch the TCS function back on.

Switching TCS or ESC Sport on and off
Depending on the vehicle equipment, TCS and ESC Sport can be switched off via the Infotainment
system or using the

button ⇒ Fig. 162 .

When the TCS is switched off, ESC Sport is switched on, or the Off-road or Off-road Individual
driving profiles are active, the yellow indicator lamp

is shown on the instrument cluster display.

• Switch off TCS: press the

button for around one second.

• Switch on ESC Sport: press the
• Switch on TCS: press the

button for longer than three seconds.
button again. ESC Sport is switched off.

Troubleshooting
Warning and indicator lamps in the event of faults
Do not drive on! Brake system fault. Seek expert assistance immediately ⇒

.

Lit

up: ABS failure or defect. Go to a qualified workshop. The vehicle can be braked without ABS.
Lit up: ESC switched off by the system. Switch the ignition on and off. Drive a short distance at a
speed of 15 – 20 km/h (9 – 12 mph) if necessary. If

still lights up, seek expert assistance.

Notes on the brake support systems
If you suspect that there is a malfunction in the systems, read and observe the following notes:
• The ESC and TCS can function properly only if all four wheels are fitted with the same tyres.
Any differences in the rolling radius of the tyres can cause the system to reduce engine power
unexpectedly.
• If there is a fault in the anti-lock brake system, the ESC, TCS and EDL will also stop working.
• Operating noises may be heard during the self-regulation processes of the systems explained
above.

WARNING
• If the brake warning lamp

lights up together with the ABS indicator lamp

, the

control function of the anti-lock brake system may have failed. This can cause the rear
wheels to lock quickly when you brake. Locked rear wheels can lead to a loss of
control of the vehicle. If possible, reduce your speed and drive carefully at low speed
to the nearest qualified workshop in order to have the brake system tested. Avoid
sudden braking and driving manoeuvres on the way.
• The anti-lock brake system is not functioning correctly if the ABS indicator lamp
does not go out or comes on while the vehicle is in motion. The vehicle can be stopped
using the normal brakes only (without the anti-lock brake system). The protection
provided by the anti-lock brake system is no longer available. Go to a qualified
workshop as soon as possible.

Practical equipment
Stowage areas
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Stowage compartment on the driver side
⇒ Stowage compartment on the front passenger side
⇒ Stowage compartment in the dash panel
⇒ Stowage compartment in the front centre armrest
⇒ Stowage compartment in the roof console (glasses compartment)
⇒ Folding table
⇒ Drawers
⇒ Coat and bag hooks
Use stowage compartments only to stow light or relatively small objects.
®

A factory-fitted CD changer, Apple iPod adapter, USB connection or multimedia socket
(MEDIA-IN) may be located in the stowage compartment in the centre armrest.

WARNING
Loose objects may be flung through the vehicle interior in the event of a sudden driving or
braking manoeuvre. This can cause serious injury and can also lead to loss of control of
the vehicle.
• Do not stow any pets or any hard, heavy or sharp objects in the vehicle's open stowage
areas, on the dash panel, on the shelf behind the rear seats, or in items of clothing and
bags in the vehicle interior.
• Always keep stowage compartments closed while the vehicle is in motion.

WARNING
Objects in the driver footwell can hinder pedal operation. This can lead to loss of control
of the vehicle and increase the risk of serious injury.
• Please ensure that all pedals can always be operated without any hindrance.
• The floor mats must always be properly secured in the footwell.
• No additional floor mats or other floor coverings should be placed over the fitted floor
mat.
• Ensure that no objects can enter the driver footwell while the vehicle is in motion.
• If there are any objects in the footwell, remove them when the vehicle is parked.

WARNING
Cigarette lighters in the vehicle could be damaged or accidentally lit. This could lead to
serious burns and other injuries.
• Before adjusting the seats, always ensure that there is no lighter on or near the
moveable parts of the seat.
• Before closing stowage areas or compartments always ensure that there is no lighter
in the way.
• Never stow lighters in stowage areas, compartments or on other surfaces in the
vehicle. High surface temperatures, especially in summer, may cause cigarette lighters
to self-ignite.

NOTICE
• Hard objects could rub against the wires of the heating element in the rear window and
cause damage.
• Do not stow any temperature-sensitive objects, food or medicines inside the vehicle.
Hot and cold temperatures could damage them or render them unusable.
• Objects stored in the vehicle that are made from transparent materials, such as
glasses, magnifying glasses or transparent suction cups on the windows, can
concentrate the sun's rays and thus cause damage to the vehicle.

Always ensure that the ventilation openings between the rear window and the stowage area
are uncovered to allow stale air to escape from the vehicle.

Stowage compartment on the driver side

Fig. 163 On the driver side: stowage compartment.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To open: pull the handle ⇒ Fig. 163 .
To close: press the cover upwards until it engages.

There is a memory card holder on the inside of the cover.

Stowage compartment on the front passenger side

Fig. 164 On the front passenger side: closed stowage compartment.

Fig. 165 On the front passenger side: open stowage compartment.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 164 :
Stowage compartment.
Net.
Key to ⇒ Fig. 165 :
Control for vent.
Holder for memory cards.
Media drives for the Infotainment system, card readers ⇒BookletInfotainment system,.
Vehicle wallet.

Opening and closing the stowage compartment
To open: pull the opening lever ⇒ Fig. 164 and open.
To close: push the stowage compartment upwards.

Cooling the stowage compartment
When the air conditioning system is switched on, cold air can be fed into the compartment. Turn the
vent to open and close it.

WARNING
If the stowage compartment on the front passenger side is left open, this can increase the
risk of serious injury in the event of an accident or during sudden braking or driving
manoeuvres.
• Always keep the stowage compartment closed while the vehicle is in motion.

NOTICE
In some vehicle models, the stowage compartment on the front passenger side contains
apertures, for example behind the vehicle wallet compartment. Small items can fall through
the apertures and become trapped behind the trim. This could cause unusual noises and
damage to the vehicle. Do not stow any small objects in the stowage compartment.

Stowage compartment in the dash panel

Fig. 166 In the centre of the dash panel: stowage compartment.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To open: press and release the button ⇒ Fig. 166 . The stowage compartments are mirrored for
right-hand drive vehicles.
To close: push the cover down until it engages.

Stowage compartment in the front centre armrest

Fig. 167 In the front centre armrest: stowage compartment
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To open: lift the centre armrest ⇒ Fig. 167 .
To close: guide the centre armrest down.

WARNING
The centre armrest can obstruct the driver's arm movements. This can cause accidents
and severe injuries.
• Always keep the stowage compartments in the centre armrest closed while the vehicle
is in motion.

WARNING
Never transport an adult or child on the centre armrest.

Stowage compartment in the roof console (glasses compartment)

Fig. 168 In the roof console: glasses compartment.

Fig. 169 In the roof console: stowage areas (depending on the vehicle).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To open: press and release the button ⇒ Fig. 168 , ⇒ Fig. 169 .

To close: press the cover upwards until it engages.

The stowage compartment must be closed when you lock the car to ensure that the interior
monitor will work properly ⇒ Central locking system .

Folding table

Fig. 170 At the left-hand front seat: folding table.

Fig. 171 On the left front seat: folding table with drink holder.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
A drink holder is integrated in the folding table ⇒ Drink holder .

Folding down the folding table
Push the folding table as far down as possible ⇒ Fig. 170 .

Folding down the folding table or adjusting the table angle
The angle of the folding table can be adjusted in increments.
• Press and hold the locking lever on the underside of the folding table ⇒ Fig. 171① in an
upward direction.
• Adjusting: press and hold the locking lever and adjust the folding table to the desired angle.
• Folding down: press and hold the locking lever and press the folding table down as far as it will
go.

Drink holder
With the folding table set up, pull the drink holder ⇒ Fig. 171② out in the direction of the arrow. In
order to stow the drink holder, push it into the folding table in the opposite direction to the arrow

⇒ Drink holder .

WARNING
The folding table must always remain closed while the vehicle is in motion in order to
reduce the risk of injury.

Drawers

Fig. 172 Drawer under the front seat.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To open: press the button in the drawer grip and open the drawer.
To close: push the drawer under the front seat until it clicks into place.

WARNING
If the drawer is left open it can hinder the correct operation of the pedals. This can result
in accidents and severe injuries.
• Always keep the drawer closed while the vehicle is in motion. Otherwise the drawer or
other items could fall into the driver footwell and obstruct the pedals.

NOTICE
The drawer is designed for a maximum load of 1.5kg.

Coat and bag hooks
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Coat hooks are located in the centre door pillar and on the rear roof grab handles.
Bag hooks are located in the luggage compartment ⇒ Luggage compartment equipment .

WARNING
Hanging up items of clothing can restrict the driver's field of vision and cause accidents
and serious injuries.
• Always hang items of clothing in such a way that they do not restrict the driver's field
of vision.
• The built-in coat hooks should only be used for lightweight clothing. Never leave any
heavy, hard or sharp objects in the pockets.

NOTICE
Each coat hook may be loaded with a maximum of 2.5 kg.

Drink holder
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Drink holders in the front centre console
⇒ Drink holder in the rear centre armrest

Bottle holder
There are bottle holders in the stowage compartments of the driver and front passenger doors.
There are also drink holders in the folding tables on the front seats ⇒ Folding table .

WARNING
Incorrect use of the drink holders can cause injury.
• Do not place any hot drinks in a drink holder. Hot drinks in a drink holder could be
spilled and cause scalding in any sudden braking manoeuvre or accident.
• Ensure that drink bottles or any other objects do not enter the driver footwell and
obstruct the pedals while the vehicle is in motion.
• Never place heavy cups, food or any other heavy items in the drink holders. These
heavy objects could be flung through the vehicle interior during an accident and cause
serious injuries.

WARNING
Closed drink bottles can explode in the vehicle in extreme heat or crack in extremely cold
temperatures.
• Never leave closed drink bottles in an extremely hot or extremely cold vehicle for
extended periods.

NOTICE
Do not leave any open drinks in the drink holder while the vehicle is in motion. Drinks that
are spilled, for example during braking, can damage the vehicle and the vehicle electrical
system.

The inserts for the drink holders can be removed for cleaning purposes.

Drink holders in the front centre console

Fig. 173 In the front centre console: drink holders.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening and closing the drink holder
To open: push the cover backwards.
To close: push the cover forwards.

Adjusting the size of the drink holder
To adjust the drink holder to match the receptacle size, press button ①. The retaining clips ②
open automatically.
If the drink holder is no longer being used, push the corresponding retaining clip ② in the opposite
direction to the arrow until it engages.

Drink holder in the rear centre armrest

Fig. 174 In the rear centre armrest: drink holder.

First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To use: fold the centre armrest down.
Fold the centre armrest back up again when the drink holder is no longer in use.

Ashtray and cigarette lighter
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Removable ashtray in the drink holder
⇒ Cigarette lighter

WARNING
Improper use of the ashtray and cigarette lighter could cause fires, burns and other
serious injuries.
• Never put paper or any other combustible materials in the ashtray.

Removable ashtray in the drink holder

Fig. 175 Removable ashtray.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To use, place the mobile ashtray in one of the drink holders in the front centre console or in the rear
centre armrest ⇒ Drink holder .

Opening and closing the removeable ashtray
To open: lift up the cover to the ashtray ⇒ Fig. 175 .
To close: push the ashtray cover down.

Emptying the removable ashtray
• Lift the removable ashtray out of the drink holder.
• Open the removable ashtray and empty the cooled ashes into a suitable waste container.
• Once it has been emptied, place the removable ashtray back into the drink holder from above.

Cigarette lighter

Fig. 176 In the lower part of the centre console: cigarette lighter.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• With the ignition switched on, press in the knob on the cigarette lighter.
• Wait for the lighter to pop out.
• Pull out the cigarette lighter and light the tobacco product on the glowing spiral ⇒
• Insert the cigarette lighter back into the socket.

.

WARNING
Improper use of the cigarette lighter can cause fires, burns and other serious injuries.
• Always use the cigarette lighter properly, and only use it to light tobacco products.
• Never leave children in the vehicle unattended. The cigarette lighter can be used when
the ignition is switched on.

The cigarette lighter socket can also be used as a 12-volt socket ⇒ Electrical sockets .

Electrical sockets
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Sockets in the vehicle
Electrical equipment can be connected to the sockets in the vehicle.
The electrical devices must be in good condition. Do not use faulty devices.
The 12-volt socket will work only when the ignition is switched on.

WARNING
Improper use of the sockets and electrical accessories can cause fires and severe injuries.
• Never leave children in the vehicle unattended. Sockets and the devices connected to
them can be used when the ignition is switched on.
• If the electrical device gets too hot, switch off the device immediately and disconnect it
from the socket.

NOTICE
• In order to prevent damage to the electrical system, never connect equipment that
supplies electric power, such as solar panels or battery chargers for charging the 12volt battery, to the 12-volt socket.
• Only use electrical devices that have been approved in accordance with current
guidelines concerning electromagnetic compatibility.
• In order to avoid damage due to voltage fluctuation, always switch off any electrical
devices before switching the ignition or the engine on or off. When the start/stop
system automatically switches off and restarts the engine, it is not necessary to switch
off any connected electrical consumers.
• Never connect electrical devices requiring more than the rated power to a 12-volt
socket. The vehicle's electrical system can be damaged if the maximum power output is
exceeded.
• Observe the operating instructions for any electrical device that you plug into the
socket.

Using electrical consumers with the engine switched off and the ignition switched on will
drain the 12-volt battery.
Unshielded devices can cause interference in the Infotainment system and vehicle
electronics.

Sockets in the vehicle

Fig. 177 In the front stowage compartment, in the rear centre console or in the luggage
compartment on the left-hand side: folding 12-volt socket ① or 12-volt socket with removable cover
②.

Fig. 178 In the luggage compartment on the left side: 230-volt socket, 115-volt socket or 100-volt
socket.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Maximum power rating
Electrical socket Maximum power rating
12 V

120 W

230, 115 or 100 V

150 W (300 W peak power)

If two or more devices are connected at the same time, the overall power consumption of all
connected electrical devices must never exceed 190 watts ⇒

.

The maximum power rating of the individual sockets should never be exceeded. The power rating
of each device is stated on its type plate.

230-volt socket, 115-volt socket, 100-volt socket
The socket is activated automatically as soon as a plug is connected when the engine is running. If
there is sufficient energy in the system, the socket can also be used when the engine is off ⇒

.

Connecting an electrical device: fold open the cover and insert the plug all the way into the socket
to unlock the integrated child lock. Electricity will not flow until the child lock has been unlocked.

LEDs on the socket
Constant green light:

The child lock is disengaged. The socket is ready for use.
The ignition is switched off but there is sufficient energy available

Flashing green light:

to continue to supply the socket with power for up to 10 minutes.
If the plug is removed during this time, the socket switches off
and cannot be re-used until the ignition is switched on again.

Flashing red light:

A fault has occurred, for example cut-off due to excess current or
temperature.

Temperature switch-off
If a specific temperature is exceeded, the inverter of the 230-, 115- or 100-volt socket switches itself
off automatically. The switch-off function prevents the connected device from overheating when the
power consumption is too high or if the ambient temperature is too high. The 230-, 115- or 100-volt
socket can be used again only after a cool-down phase.
The plug on the connected device must first be removed and then reinserted before using the 230-,
115- or 100-volt socket again after the cool-down phase. This prevents the electrical devices being
switched on again unintentionally.

DANGER
High voltage in the electrical system!
• Never spill any liquids over the socket.
• Do not plug any adapters or extension cables into the 230-, 115- or 100-volt socket.
Otherwise the built-in child lock will disengage and power will be supplied to the
socket.
• Do not insert any items which will conduct electricity, such as knitting needles, into the
contacts of the 230-, 115- or 100-volt socket.

NOTICE
• 230-, 115- or 100-volt socket:
- Do not plug any heavy devices or connections, such as mains adapters, directly
into the socket.
- Do not connect any lights which use neon tubes.
- Only connect devices to the socket with a voltage that matches the voltage of the
socket.
- In the case of electrical devices with a high starting current, the built-in excess
current switch will prevent the device from being switched on. If this happens,
disconnect the electrical device from the power supply and reconnect after waiting
approximately ten seconds.

Functional problems may occur with some devices when they are connected to the 230-,
115- or 100-volt socket due to the lower power output (wattage).

Mobile online services
Volkswagen Car-Net⇒
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Legal requirements
⇒ Deactivating Car-Net services
⇒ Interferences
⇒ Volkswagen Car-Net services
⇒ Apps
Volkswagen Car-Net allows you to communicate with your vehicle online or via an app in a very
simple way in order to exchange data, request information or control functions.
In order to use Volkswagen Car-Net, the vehicle needs to have been ordered with Car-Net and
factory-fitted with the system. Depending on the service portfolio, Volkswagen Car-Net can be
operated via the factory-fitted Infotainment system, via a Car-Net portal on the internet or using a
mobile device.
Information about the Volkswagen Car-Net services, applications, availability, compatible mobile
devices and service portfolio, as well as service descriptions, are available on the Volkswagen
website:
• In Europe and Japan: www.Volkswagen.com/car-net
• In China: www.vwcarnet.com.cn
Before using the Volkswagen Car-Net services for the first time, please read and observe the
information in the relevant service description. This will quickly help you to become familiar
with the services and make you aware of potential risks to yourself and others, and how to
avoid them.

WARNING
Accidents and injuries can occur if the driver is distracted.
• Always drive carefully and responsibly.

WARNING
Failure to observe the information in the service description can lead to your vehicle
breaking down in traffic, and can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Always use the most up-to-date edition of the relevant service descriptions which is
available on the Volkswagen website.

WARNING
The following conditions can make it impossible to make a telephone call, run a
Volkswagen Car-Net service or transfer data:
• If your current location is in an area with no or insufficient mobile communications and
GPS reception. This can also include tunnels, streets with tall buildings, garages,
multi-storey car parks, underpasses, mountains and valleys.
• If you are in an area with sufficient mobile communications and GPS reception but the
telecommunications provider's mobile network is overloaded, out of order or
unavailable.
• If the components in the vehicle required for the services and data transmission are
damaged, not working or do not have sufficient electrical power.
• The battery for the mobile device is empty, does not have a sufficient charge level or
has no more call credit.

WARNING
Using computers and mobile devices in public or non-secured LAN and WLAN networks
can lead to a loss of control over your Volkswagen Car-Net services.
• In addition to the usual precautionary measures to be taken when using the Internet,
you should protect your computer and mobile device with suitable anti-virus software
and regularly update its signatures.
• Protect your login data for the Car-Net portal, your computer and mobile device against
misuse.

WARNING
Applications and Volkswagen Car-Net services which are unsuitable or faulty or that are
used incorrectly can cause damage to the vehicle, accidents or serious injury.
• Never make changes to applications or Volkswagen Car-Net services.

NOTICE
Volkswagen is not responsible for damage to the vehicle caused by poor quality or faulty
applications, insufficient programming of applications, insufficient network strength, loss
of data during transmission or by misuse of your computers, tablets or mobile devices.

Legal requirements

Fig. 179 Symbol for vehicles that send tracking information
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
By concluding a Volkswagen Car-Net contract for your Car-Net-enabled vehicle, you as the
contracting party undertake within the meaning of data protection law to inform each driver that the
vehicle can transmit and receive data online. This also applies if you sell or lend your vehicle.
Failure to observe this obligation to inform can infringe certain rights of vehicle occupants.

GPS tracking: check with all occupants
Some Volkswagen Car-Net services require vehicle data to determine whether the vehicle is
complying with set speed limits, where the vehicle is parked, or whether the vehicle is located within
a selected area. This information can be displayed in the Car-Net portal and in the Volkswagen
Car-Net app.
Therefore, before driving, ask all vehicle occupants if they agree to use of the activated services. If
an occupant does not agree, deactivate the service (if possible) or exclude the occupant from use
of the vehicle. If you do not observe this, you may violate certain rights of the occupant.

GPS tracking: symbol
If a factory-fitted control unit is used to detect the vehicle's current location and speed, this symbol

⇒ Fig. 179 will be located in the vehicle (e.g. on the roof console). However, if this symbol
⇒ Fig. 179 is not present in the vehicle, this does not mean that the control unit is not tracking the
current position or speed of the vehicle.

Personal data
Volkswagen collects, processes and uses the user's personal data in accordance with statutory
requirements. You can access the current data protection policy on the Volkswagen homepage.

Deactivating Car-Net services

Fig. 180 Retrofitted sticker in the vehicle if Volkswagen Car-Net services have been permanently
deactivated.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If you sell the vehicle or lend it for a longer period, inform the user about the deactivated services or
deactivated control unit.
If your vehicle is already equipped with the legally required emergency call function eCall, this
function will not be affected by the deactivation.

Temporary deactivation
If your vehicle is in a workshop, you may find that the service technicians have deactivated
individual or all services for the duration of the workshop visit. The services will be available again
once the work is complete. Please contact your workshop if necessary. Individual Volkswagen CarNet services can be deactivated manually via the Infotainment system. The services can then be
run again when the deactivation is cancelled in the Infotainment system. Deactivated services are
marked in the Car-Net portal on the start page with a corresponding indication.

Permanent deactivation
In order to permanently deactivate Car-Net functions in vehicles with the Security & Service or
e-Remote packages, the online connectivity unit must be deactivated by a qualified workshop at
your request.
Once the on-board connectivity unit has been deactivated, the workshop will attach a sticker

⇒ Fig. 180 to your vehicle (e.g. on the roof console). The sticker shows that neither the
Volkswagen emergency call service nor the automatic accident notification will work. All other
e-Remote and Security & Service services will also be deactivated.

Interferences
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Even when the above-mentioned requirements for using the services are met, the functionality of
the Car-Net services can be impaired or interrupted due to factors that lie outside the control of
Volkswagen AG. Such factors include in particular:
• Maintenance, repairs, software updates and technical changes to your service provider’s
telecommunication systems, satellites, servers and databases.
• The telecommunications provider has changed the mobile telecommunication standard for
transferring mobile data, e.g. from UMTS to EDGE or GPRS
• An existing mobile telecommunications standard has been shut down by the
telecommunications provider.
• Impairment or interruption to mobile and GPS reception, e.g. due to high speeds, weather,
landscape, interfering devices or intensive use of the mobile network in the relevant cells.
• The availability, completeness or correctness of information provided by third parties, e.g.
maps.
• Countries where Volkswagen Car-Net services are not available.

Volkswagen Car-Net services
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Data transmission
The data for using the Volkswagen Car-Net Guide & Inform services are transferred via your mobile
1)

device with data option or a SIM card with data option. For some services, your mobile device or
your SIM card needs to support a specific data connection type, e.g. rSAP.
Data transmission for running the Volkswagen Car-Net e-Remote and Security & Service services
is performed using a factory-fitted control unit with an integrated SIM card with data option.

Availability
Volkswagen Car-Net services can be subject to a limited period or changed, set, deactivated,
reactivated and expanded without prior notice.
Some Volkswagen Car-Net services contain external information that originates from third parties
(e.g. maps). Volkswagen AG is not responsible for external information being correct, up-to-date
and complete, or for any infringement of third-party rights.

Volkswagen Car-Net services can be subject to regional restrictions. Availability also depends on
the mobile network coverage in each country.

Exchanging your system
If the factory-fitted Infotainment system or control unit is damaged or must be exchanged in a
vehicle with Volkswagen Car-Net services installed, go to a qualified workshop. This may require
registering or activating again.

Registration for user account on Car-Net portal
If you wish to use the Volkswagen Car-Net e-Remote, Guide & Inform or Security & Service
services in a Car-Net-compatible vehicle, you must create a user account at
www.volkswagen.com/car-net and activate Volkswagen Car-Net.

Service description
The portfolios for the e-Remote, Guide & Inform and Security & Service services are all explained in
a separate service description. This service descriptions and additional important information about
all services and Car-Net-capable vehicles are available online at www.volkswagen.com/car-net and
on the Car-Net portal once a user account has been set up.
All service descriptions are updated at irregular intervals and are available on the Car-Net portal.
Always use the latest edition of the relevant service description.

Volkswagen Car-Net services is a system based on a mobile network. If a fault arises
despite the fact that all requirements have been fulfilled, please try using the services again at a
later time.
The use of Volkswagen Car-Net and the necessary mobile network connection may be
subject to a fee. Due to the potentially high volume of data in use, Volkswagen recommends using
a mobile phone tariff which includes a data flat rate. For more information contact your mobile
telephone provider.
1)

Data transfer via the factory-fitted SIM card reader (if possible).

Apps
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• The Volkswagen Car-Net app that executes Volkswagen Car-Net services in the vehicle and
that can provide information.
• Volkswagen App-Connect allows content from Volkswagen apps and third party apps on mobile
devices to be shown on the Infotainment system screen.
There may be problems with compatibility with third party apps.
Applications, their use and the necessary mobile network connection may be subject to charges.
A wide range of applications may be available and they can be vehicle-specific and country-specific

⇒

. Content, range and provider of applications can vary. Some applications also depend on

availability of services offered by third parties.
We are unable to guarantee that the available apps can be run on all mobile devices and all
operating systems.
Applications offered by Volkswagen can be changed, set, deactivated, reactivated and expanded
without prior notice.

Transporting
Stowing luggage and loads
Cargo and luggage can be transported in the vehicle, on a trailer ⇒ Technical requirements and on
the roof ⇒ Roof carrier . Always observe the legal regulations.

Stowing luggage safely in the vehicle
• Always distribute any loads in the vehicle as evenly as possible.
• Always stow luggage and heavy objects in the luggage compartment ⇒

.

• Place heavy objects as far forward in the luggage compartment as possible.
• Observe gross axle weight ratings and the gross vehicle weight rating ⇒ Information on
technical data .
• Secure luggage in the luggage compartment to the fastening rings using suitable fixing and
securing straps ⇒ Luggage compartment equipment .
• Also stow small objects safely.

• If necessary, fold back the rear seat backrest and allow it to engage securely.
• If necessary, adjust the headlight range ⇒ Headlights .
• Adjust the tyre pressure according to the vehicle load. Observe the tyre pressure sticker ⇒ Tyre
pressure .
• In vehicles with a tyre monitoring system, set the new vehicle load level as necessary ⇒ Tyre
monitoring systems .

WARNING
Objects that are not secured, or are secured incorrectly, can cause serious injuries in the
event of a sudden driving or braking manoeuvre or accident. This applies particularly if
objects are struck by the airbag when activated and then flung through the vehicle
interior. To reduce the risk of accidents, please observe the following guidelines:
• Always stow all objects in the vehicle securely.
• Small and light objects should also be secured.
• Objects should be stowed in the vehicle interior in such a way that they can never
enter the airbag deployment zones while the vehicle is in motion.
• Always keep stowage compartments closed while the vehicle is in motion.
• Stowed objects must never cause passengers to assume an incorrect sitting position.
• If an item is being stowed on a seat, this seat must not be used by any passengers.
• Do not stow any hard, heavy or sharp objects loose in any of the vehicle's open
stowage areas, on the surface behind the rear seat backrest or on the dash panel.
• Remove any hard, heavy or sharp objects from items of clothing and bags inside the
vehicle and stow them securely.

WARNING
Transporting heavy objects changes the vehicle's handling and increases the braking
distance. Heavy loads that are not properly stowed or secured in the vehicle can lead to a
loss of vehicle control and can cause serious injury.
• Never exceed the vehicle's maximum payload. Both the payload and the distribution of
the load in the vehicle will have an effect on the driving response and braking distance
of the vehicle.
• Transporting heavy objects changes the vehicle's handling and the centre of gravity.
• The payload should be distributed as evenly as possible in the vehicle.
• Always secure heavy objects in the luggage compartment as far in front of the rear axle
as possible.
• Loose objects in the luggage compartment can suddenly slide and change the way the
vehicle handles.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Accelerate carefully and gently.
• Avoid sudden braking and driving manoeuvres.
• Brake earlier than in normal driving.

NOTICE
Objects rubbing against the rear windows may damage or destroy the heating wires or,
depending on the vehicle equipment, also the aerial.

Do not cover the ventilation openings in the area around the rear window as this prevents
stale air escaping from the vehicle.

Luggage compartment cover

Fig. 181 In the luggage compartment: removing and installing the luggage compartment cover.

When the boot lid ⇒ Boot lid is opened and closed, the luggage compartment cover is also raised
and lowered if the straps are attached.
Light items of clothing can be placed on the luggage compartment cover. Please ensure that the
view to the rear of the vehicle is not obstructed.

Removing the luggage compartment cover
• Unhook the retaining straps from the boot lid ⇒ Fig. 181 (upper arrows).
• Pull the luggage compartment cover out of the side retainers ⇒ Fig. 181 (lower arrows).

Fitting the luggage compartment cover
• Push the luggage compartment cover into the side retainers ⇒ Fig. 181 (lower arrows).
• Hook the retaining straps to the boot lid ⇒ Fig. 181 (upper arrows).

Stowing the luggage compartment cover
• Depending on the equipment level, the removed luggage compartment cover can be stowed
under the variable luggage compartment floor ⇒ Luggage compartment floor .

WARNING
Objects that are not secured or are secured incorrectly, or animals on the luggage
compartment cover, could cause serious injuries in any sudden driving or braking
manoeuvre or accident.
• Do not stow any hard, heavy or sharp items either loose or in bags on the luggage
compartment cover.
• Never transport pets on the luggage compartment cover.

NOTICE
To prevent damage to the luggage compartment cover, do not load it to such a height that
the load will press against the luggage compartment cover when the boot lid is closed.

Luggage compartment floor
Variable luggage compartment floor

Fig. 182 In the luggage compartment: raising the luggage compartment floor.

Fig. 183 In the luggage compartment: adjusting the height of the luggage compartment floor.

Opening the luggage compartment floor
• Lift the recessed handle in the luggage compartment floor ⇒ Fig. 182 and fold the floor
upwards in the direction of the arrow until it is held in position by the side restraints (zoomed in)

⇒ Fig. 182 .

Closing the luggage compartment floor
• Guide the luggage compartment floor downwards into position ⇒

.

Adjusting the height of the luggage compartment floor
Depending on the equipment level, the luggage compartment floor is height-adjustable.

• If necessary, unclip the luggage net ⇒ Luggage net and remove the securing straps.
• Lift the luggage compartment floor and pull it rearwards out of the guides on the sides of the
luggage compartment ⇒ Fig. 183

.

• Insert the luggage compartment floor into the guides at the required height and push it forwards
as far as it will go ⇒ Fig. 183

,

.

NOTICE
Never drop the luggage compartment floor; guide it slowly back down. The trims or the
luggage compartment floor could otherwise be damaged.

Depending on the vehicle equipment, there may be compartments for stowing small items
under the luggage compartment floor.
Volkswagen recommends that you secure items to the fastening rings with the aid of fixing or
securing straps.

Net partition
Folding the net partition in and out

Fig. 184 Folding out the net partition.

Fig. 185 Folding in the net partition.

The net partition must be folded out before being fitted in the vehicle.

Folding out the net partition
Remove the net partition from the bag and roll out.
Fold out the net partition side rods ⇒ Fig. 184 ① and ② as shown by the arrow until it audibly
clicks.

Folding in the net partition
• Press the release button ⇒ Fig. 185 ①. With the release button pressed down, fold in the rod
in the direction of the arrow.
• Press the release button ⇒ Fig. 185 ②. With the release button pressed down, fold in the rod
in the direction of the arrow.
• Roll up the net partition and store in the bag.
• Stow the bag securely in the vehicle.

Using the net partition

Fig. 186 Fitted net partition.

The net partition is intended to prevent objects from being propelled from the luggage compartment
into the passenger compartment, e.g. during sudden braking manoeuvres.

Fitting the net partition
The net partition can be fitted behind the rear bench seat or behind the front seats when the second
row of seats are folded down, depending on the equipment.
• Remove the luggage compartment cover, if necessary ⇒ Luggage compartment cover .
• Fold out the net partition ⇒ Folding the net partition in and out .
• Hook the net partition into the left holder in the roof ⇒ Fig. 186 Ⓐ. Ensure that the transverse
rod is pulled up over the upper position so that it latches securely in the slots.
• Fit the net partition into the opposite right-hand holder in the roof by pushing the rod together

⇒ Fig. 186 Ⓐ.
• Attach both securing hooks of the net partition to the fastening rings in the luggage
compartment ⇒ Fig. 186 Ⓑ and pull the straps taut.

Removing the net partition
• Remove the luggage compartment cover, if necessary ⇒ Luggage compartment cover .
• Loosen the net partition straps.
• Unhook the securing hooks of the net partition from the fastening rings ⇒ Fig. 186 Ⓑ.
• Detach the net partition from the right-hand holder in the roof ⇒ Fig. 186 Ⓐ by pushing the rod
together.
• Unhook the net partition from the left-hand holder in the roof.
• Fold in the net partition ⇒ Folding the net partition in and out .
• If necessary, fit the luggage compartment cover ⇒ Luggage compartment cover .

WARNING
In the event of a sudden braking manoeuvre or accident, objects could be flung through
the interior and lead to severe or fatal injuries.
• Ensure that the rods are securely engaged.
• Objects should be secured even when the net partition is correctly fitted.
• While the vehicle is moving, no passengers may travel behind the fitted net partition.

NOTICE
Improper attachment of the net partition to points not intended for this use can cause
damage.

Luggage compartment equipment
Fastening rings

Fig. 187 In the luggage compartment: fixed and folding fastening rings.

There are fastening rings ⇒ Fig. 187 at the front and rear of the luggage compartment which can
be used to secure loose items and luggage with the help of lashing, retaining or securing straps.

WARNING
Unsuitable or damaged securing straps could rip in the event of a braking manoeuvre or
accident. This could cause objects to be flung through the vehicle interior and lead to
severe or fatal injuries.
• Always use suitable and undamaged securing straps.
• Pull lashing, retaining and securing straps taut crosswise over the cargo on the
luggage compartment floor and attach securely to the fastening rings.
• Never exceed the maximum load rating of the fastening rings when securing objects.
• Make sure that the upper edge of the load is higher than the fastening rings,
particularly when stowing flat objects.
• Depending on the vehicle equipment, observe the signs about stowing loads that are
attached in the luggage compartment.
• Never secure a child seat to the fastening rings.

The maximum load rating of the fastening rings is approximately 3.5 kN.

Suitable lashing, retaining or securing straps and luggage securing systems are available
from qualified workshops. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this
purpose.

Luggage net

Fig. 188 In the luggage compartment: luggage net fitted flat.

The luggage net can help to prevent light items of luggage from sliding around in the luggage
compartment. The luggage net also has a built-in pocket with a zip that can hold smaller items.

Attaching the luggage net flat on the luggage compartment floor
• Hook the luggage net hooks into the front fastening rings ⇒ Fig. 188 ⇒

. The luggage net zip

must face upwards.
• Attach the hooks on the other end of the luggage net to the fastening rings under the load sill

⇒ Fig. 188 .
Some fastening rings have to be folded out before they can be used ⇒ Fastening rings .

Removing the luggage net
When fitted, the luggage net is held taut ⇒

.

• Unhook the hooks and loops of the luggage net.
• Store the luggage net in the luggage compartment.

WARNING
The elastic luggage net must be stretched when it is secured to the fastening rings in the
luggage compartment. When fitted, the luggage net is held taut. The luggage net hooks
can cause injuries if the luggage net is installed or removed incorrectly.
• Always hold the luggage net hooks tightly to prevent them from falling out of the ring
during installation or removal.
• Protect your eyes and face to avoid injuries from any hooks that may spring out during
installation or removal.
• Always attach the luggage net hooks in the order described. There is a risk of injury if
one of the hooks on the luggage net snaps back.

Bag hook

Fig. 189 In the luggage compartment: bag hook.

A bag hook may be located on the left and right-hand side of the luggage compartment ⇒ Fig. 189 .

WARNING
Never use the bag hook for lashing down items of luggage or other objects. The bag hook
could break off during a sudden braking manoeuvre or in the event of an accident.

NOTICE
Do not load the bag hook with more than 2.5 kg.

Load-through hatch

Fig. 190 In the rear seat backrest: opening the load-through hatch.

Depending on the vehicle equipment, a load-through hatch may be located behind the centre
armrest in the rear seat backrest. This can be used to transport long objects in the vehicle interior,
such as skis.

Opening the load-through hatch
• Press the release button ⇒ Fig. 190 ① and fold the load-through hatch forwards ⇒

.

• Open the boot lid.
• Push the long objects through the load-through hatch from the luggage compartment.
• Secure the objects with the seat belt.
• Close the boot lid.

Closing the load-through hatch
• Fold back the load-through hatch and push it firmly into the lock until it clicks securely into
place. The red marking on the locking indicator ⇒ Fig. 190 ② should no longer be visible ⇒
.

WARNING
Failure to pay attention when folding the load-through hatch forwards or backwards may
result in injuries.
• Never fold the load-through hatch forwards or backwards while the vehicle is in
motion.
• Ensure that the seat belt is not trapped or damaged when folding back the loadthrough hatch.
• Always keep hands, fingers, feet and other body parts away from the seat area when
folding the load-through hatch forwards and backwards.
• The load-through hatch has not been secured properly if the red marking can still be
seen on the locking indicator. Always ensure that the red marking is never visible when
the load-through hatch is in the upright position.
• Passengers (children in particular) must not use this seat if the load-through hatch is
folded forward or is not clicked securely into place.

Removeable lights

Fig. 191 On the left of the luggage compartment: removable light.

Depending on the equipment, there may be a bracket for a removable light on the left-hand side of
the luggage compartment.
When fitted, the removeable light is used as a luggage compartment light.

Removing light from the holder
• Take hold of the removeable light in the area ⇒ Fig. 191 Ⓐ.
• Pull the removeable light in the direction of the arrow out of the holder.

Using the removeable light
The removeable light is equipped with magnets. After removal, the light can be secured on the
vehicle body, for example ⇒

.

Depending on the equipment, the light brightness can be set to two levels:
• Press button ⇒ Fig. 191 ① to switch on. The light is lit with full brightness.
• Press the button ⇒ Fig. 191 ① again to set the light to 50% power.
• Press the button ⇒ Fig. 191 ① again to switch the removeable light off.

Stowing the removeable light in the luggage compartment
Switch off the removeable light and push it in the opposite direction to the arrow ⇒ Fig. 191 into the
holder.

Replacing batteries
The rechargeable batteries of the removeable light are charged when it is fitted in the holder and
the engine is running.
You should change the batteries if the removeable light no longer provides the desired level of
brightness.
• Remove the light from the holder.
• Lever off the battery cover with a thin object under area ⇒ Fig. 191 Ⓐ.
• Replace the batteries with models with the same voltage, size and specifications, making sure
they are installed in the right direction.
• Press the battery cover onto the removeable light until the battery cover audibly clicks into
place.

NOTICE
To avoid damage, stow the removable light securely in the holder in the luggage
compartment before driving off.

NOTICE
Use of conventional batteries or unsuitable rechargeable batteries can damage the
removable light and the vehicle electronics.
• Only use batteries that have the same specifications.

Roof carrier
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Securing a roof carrier
⇒ Loading the roof carrier
⇒ Notes on use
Roof carriers can be used to transport bulky items on the roof of the vehicle.
Depending on the model, the vehicle may be designed for fitting a roof carrier.
If you are unsure whether a roof carrier can be fitted on your vehicle, please contact a specialist
workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.
Only roof carriers that have been approved by Volkswagen for the vehicle must be used.

If the vehicle is not approved for use with a roof carrier, do not use or retrofit a roof carrier.

WARNING
When transporting heavy or bulky items on the roof carrier, the vehicle handling will
change due to the shift in the centre of gravity and increased susceptibility to crosswinds.
• Always secure loads properly using suitable and undamaged securing straps.
• Cargo that is large, heavy, bulky, long or flat will have a negative effect on the vehicle
aerodynamics, centre of gravity and overall handling.
• Avoid abrupt and sudden driving and braking manoeuvres.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.

WARNING
A roof carrier that has not been approved for the vehicle or a roof carrier that is fitted to a
vehicle that is not approved for use with a roof carrier may cause accidents or injuries.
• Use only roof carriers that have been approved by Volkswagen for your vehicle type.
• Never use a roof carrier on a vehicle that has not been approved for use with a roof
carrier.
• A roof carrier that is fitted nevertheless may become loose whilst the vehicle is in
motion and fall from the vehicle roof.

NOTICE
Securing a roof carrier of any kind to a vehicle that is not approved for use with a roof
carrier may lead to severe damage to the vehicle.

Securing a roof carrier
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Special roof carriers must be used to transport luggage, bicycles, skis, surfboards or boats safely ⇒
. Suitable accessories are available from your Volkswagen dealership.

Attaching roof bars and load carrier system (vehicles with roof railings)
Mount roof bars to the roof railing according to the installation instructions provided.
Once you have fitted the base carrier bars, you can then secure the respective carrier system on
them.

WARNING
Incorrectly attaching and using the roof bars and load carrier could cause the whole roof
carrier system to fall off the roof. This could cause accidents and injuries.
• Only use roof bars and load carrier systems when they are undamaged and fitted
correctly.
• Always fit roof bars and load carriers correctly. Always observe the installation
instructions provided by the manufacturer.
• Attach the roof bars only at the specified mounting points.
• Special roof carriers for items such as bicycles, skis, surfboards, etc. should always be
properly installed. Always observe the installation instructions provided by the
manufacturer.
• Check that the roof carrier is secured before starting your journey and tighten as
necessary after driving a short distance. During a long trip, check all bolts and
fasteners at each stop.
• Do not carry out any changes or repairs to the roof bars or the load carrier system.

Loading the roof carrier
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Maximum permissible roof load
The maximum permitted roof load is 75 kg.
The roof load limit refers to the combined weight of the roof carrier and the load carried on the roof

⇒

.

Make sure you are aware of the weight of the roof carrier system and the load to be transported.
Weigh the load if necessary.
However, you will not be able to carry the maximum roof load if you are using a roof carrier with a
lower weight rating. In this case, do not exceed the maximum weight limit for the load carrier
system which is specified in the manufacturer's installation instructions.

Distributing the load
Distribute the load evenly and secure it correctly ⇒

.

WARNING
Accidents and vehicle damage can occur if the maximum permitted roof load is exceeded.
• Never exceed the quoted roof load, the maximum permissible axle loads, and the
permissible gross vehicle weight for the vehicle.
• Do not exceed the weight rating of the roof carrier, even if the maximum roof load has
not been reached.

WARNING
Loose and incorrectly secured loads can fall off the roof carrier and cause accidents and
injuries.
• Always use suitable and undamaged securing straps.

NOTICE
When opening the boot lid take care not to let it hit the roof load.

Notes on use
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Remove the roof carrier in the following situations
• When the roof carrier is no longer being used.
• Before entering a car wash.
• When the vehicle height exceeds the required clearance height, e.g. in a garage.

NOTICE
• Always remove the roof carrier before driving through an automatic car wash.
• The height of the vehicle is changed by the installation of a carrier system and the load
secured to it. Check and compare the height of the vehicle with clearance heights, e.g.
for underpasses and garage doors.
• The roof carrier and its load must not obstruct you from opening and closing the tilting
and sliding panoramic sunroof and the boot lid. The roof aerial must also remain
unaffected.

Driving with a fitted roof carrier will increase air resistance and thus increase fuel
consumption.

Trailer towing

Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Technical requirements
⇒ Electrically adjustable ball coupling
⇒ Fitting a bicycle carrier on the swivelling ball head
⇒ Notes on towing a trailer
⇒ Loading the trailer
⇒ Trailer towing
⇒ Trailer stabilisation
⇒ Retrofitting a towing bracket
⇒ Troubleshooting
The vehicle can be used to tow a trailer if it has the required technical equipment for this. The
additional trailer load will affect the amount of wear, fuel consumption and performance of the
vehicle and, in certain circumstances, could shorten the service intervals.

Driving with a trailer not only places an extra load on the vehicle, but also requires increased
concentration on the part of the driver.

Vehicles with start/stop system
If the connected trailer is not recognised, or when using towing brackets that were not retrofitted by
Volkswagen, the start/stop system must be deactivated manually using the

button in the

centre console before starting to tow a trailer, and must remain switched off for as long as the trailer
is being towed ⇒

.

DANGER
It is dangerous to transport people in a trailer and it may also be illegal.

WARNING
Improper use of the towing bracket can lead to a loss of vehicle control, accidents and
serious injuries.
• Only use the towing bracket if it is fitted properly and is not damaged.
• Do not carry out any alterations or repairs to the towing bracket.
• Wherever possible, swivel in or remove the ball head when a trailer is not being used in
order to reduce the risk of injury in rear-end collisions, and the risk of injury to
pedestrians and cyclists when the vehicle is parked.
• Never install a weight-distributing or load-balancing towing bracket to the vehicle. The
vehicle is not constructed for these kinds of towing brackets. The towing bracket can
fail, causing the trailer to tear loose from the vehicle.

WARNING
Towing a trailer and transporting heavy or bulky items can change the vehicle handling,
increase the braking distance and lead to accidents.
• Always secure loads properly using suitable and undamaged securing straps.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions. Reduce your speed, particularly when going downhill.
• Trailers with a high centre of gravity are more likely to tip over than trailers with a low
centre of gravity.
• Always drive carefully and think ahead. Accelerate carefully and gently. Avoid abrupt
and sudden driving and braking manoeuvres.
• Take special care when overtaking. Reduce your speed immediately if the trailer shows
even the slightest sign of snaking.
• Never drive faster than 80 km/h (50 mph) when towing a trailer; also 100 km/h (60 mph)
in exceptional cases. This also applies to countries where higher speeds are permitted.
Keep to country-specific speed limits which may be lower for vehicles with trailers than
for vehicles without trailers.
• Never try to stop a trailer from snaking by increasing your speed.
• Never install a weight-distributing or load-balancing towing bracket on the vehicle.

WARNING
The start/stop system must always be switched off manually when towing a trailer using
towing brackets that have not been retrofitted by Volkswagen. Otherwise faults can occur
in the brake system, possibly resulting in accidents and serious injuries.

NOTICE
Observe the instructions and information relating to vehicles with N1 approval

⇒ Information about vehicles with N1 approval (light commercial vehicle) .

Always switch off the anti-theft alarm before a trailer is hitched or unhitched or a bicycle
carrier is loaded or unloaded ⇒ Central and manual locking . The tilt sensor could otherwise trigger
an alarm unintentionally.
With a new engine, do not tow a trailer during the first 1,000 km ⇒ Running in the engine .

Some retro-fitted towing brackets may cover the aperture for fitting the towing eye. If so, the
towing eye cannot be used for towing or tow-starting other vehicles. For this reason, the retro-fitted
towing bracket ball head should be stored in the vehicle at all times.

Technical requirements
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Engine cooling system
There is an increased load on the engine and the engine cooling system when trailer towing. The
engine cooling system must contain sufficient engine coolant and be able to cope with the extra
load added by the trailer.

Trailer brake
If the trailer is equipped with its own brake system, comply with the relevant regulations.

Trailer tail light clusters
The trailer tail light clusters must work correctly and meet legal requirements. Do not exceed the
maximum power consumption for the trailer.

Exterior mirrors
If you are unable to see the traffic behind the trailer in the vehicle's standard exterior mirrors,
additional exterior mirrors should be fitted in accordance with any country-specific regulations.
Before setting off, adjust the mirrors so that you have a sufficient view of the rear.

Retrofitting a towing bracket
Only use a towing bracket which has been approved by Volkswagen for your vehicle type. Always
check and follow the data provided by the towing bracket manufacturer.

Maximum power consumption of the trailer's electrical consumers
Never exceed the specified values.

Europe, Asia, Africa, South and Central America
All brake lights

84 watts

Turn signal per side

42 watts

All side lights

100 watts

All tail lights

42 watts

Rear fog light

42 watts

Australia
All brake lights

108 watts

Turn signal per side

54 watts

All side lights

100 watts

All tail lights

54 watts

Rear fog light

54 watts

WARNING
If the towing bracket is unsuitable or incorrectly fitted, the trailer could become detached
from the towing vehicle. This can cause serious accidents and fatal injuries.
• Never fit a towing bracket to the rear bumper or to its fastenings. The towing bracket
must not prevent the rear bumper from functioning correctly.
• Do not carry out any alterations to the exhaust or brake systems.

NOTICE
• The vehicle electronics may be damaged if the trailer's power consumption is too high.
• Never connect the trailer's electrical system directly to the electrical connections of the
tail lights or to other sources of electricity. Only use suitable connectors to provide
power to the trailer.

Towing a trailer places additional demands on the vehicle. Volkswagen recommends
additional services between the normal inspection intervals if the vehicle is used frequently for
towing a trailer.

Electrically adjustable ball coupling

Fig. 192 On the right of the luggage compartment: button for releasing the ball coupling.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The towing bracket coupling ball is located in the bumper. The electrically adjustable ball couple is
swivelled out mechanically and cannot be removed.

Releasing and swivelling out ball head
• Bring the vehicle to a standstill and apply the electronic parking brake ⇒ Electronic parking
brake .
• Switch off the engine.
• Open the boot lid.
• Briefly pull the button ⇒ Fig. 192 on the right-hand side of the luggage compartment. The ball
head is released electrically and folds out automatically. The indicator lamp in the button
flashes.
• Continue rotating the ball head until you hear and feel it click into place and the indicator lamp
in the button lights up continuously.
• Close the boot lid.

Swivelling in the ball head
• Bring the vehicle to a standstill and apply the electronic parking brake ⇒ Electronic parking
brake .
• Switch off the engine.
• Uncouple the trailer and disconnect the electrical connection between the vehicle and the
trailer. If fitted, remove the adapter from the trailer socket.
• Open the boot lid.
• Briefly pull the button ⇒ Fig. 192 on the right-hand side of the luggage compartment. The ball
head is electrically unlocked.
• Swivel the ball head under the bumper until you hear and feel it click into place and the indicator
lamp in the button lights up continuously.
• Close the boot lid.

Meaning of indicator lamp in the button
• If the indicator lamp in the button ⇒ Fig. 192 is lit up permanently when the boot lid is open, the
ball head is correctly engaged in the extended or retracted position.
• If the indicator lamp in the button flashes, the ball head has either not clicked into place properly
or it is damaged ⇒

.

• The indicator lamp in the button goes out approximately one minute after the luggage
compartment is closed.

WARNING
Improper use of the towing bracket can cause injury and accidents.
• Only use the ball head if it has clicked into place properly.
• Ensure that no people, animals or items are in the path of the ball head.
• Never interrupt the ball head, for example with tools, when it is swivelling.
• Never press the button ⇒ Fig. 192 if a trailer is attached or if a luggage rack or other
accessories are fitted to the ball head.
• If the ball coupling does not engage properly or there is a fault in the electrical system
or the towing bracket itself, do not use the towing bracket and have it checked by an
authorised workshop.
• Never use the towing bracket if the diameter of the ball is below 49 mm at the smallest
point.

NOTICE
Do not aim a high-pressure cleaner or steam cleaner directly at the mechanically
positioned ball coupling or the fitted trailer socket. Seals could be damaged or the grease
required for lubrication could be washed off.

At extremely low outside temperatures, the electric ball head might not rotate. If this
happens, it is sufficient to place the vehicle in a warmer room, e.g. a garage.

Fitting a bicycle carrier on the swivelling ball head
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Mount the bicycle carrier in accordance with the manufacturer's assembly instructions.
Only carrier systems which can hold a maximum of three bicycles may be used ⇒

. Position

heavy bicycles as close to the vehicle (ball head) as possible.

Maximum carrying load
The maximum permitted load (carrier system including load) on the ball coupling is 75 kg at a
distance of 300 mm. This distance refers to the gap between the centre of gravity of the bicycle
carrier and the middle of the ball head.

WARNING
Incorrect use of the towing bracket with a bicycle carrier fitted to the ball head could
cause injuries and accidents.
• Never exceed the specified load and overhang.
• Do not attach a bicycle carrier underneath the ball head on the neck of the ball head.
The shape of the ball head neck and the design of the bicycle carrier could result in the
bicycle carrier becoming misaligned with the vehicle.
• Read and observe the assembly instructions provided by the bicycle carrier
manufacturer.

NOTICE
Considerable vehicle damage could occur if the maximum permitted payload or overhang
is exceeded.
• Never exceed the specified values.

Volkswagen recommends that you remove all add-on parts from the bicycles before setting
off. This includes for example bicycle bags and baskets, child seats or batteries. This helps improve
the carrier system's wind load and centre of gravity.

Notes on towing a trailer

Fig. 193 Pin assignment for the trailer socket (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Pin assignment for the trailer socket ⇒ Fig. 193 :
Left turn signal
Rear fog light
Earth for pins 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Right turn signal
Rear light, right
Brake light

Rear light, left
Reversing light
Permanent positive
Permanent positive
Earth for pin 10
Not assigned
Earth for pin 9

Trailer socket
A 13-pin trailer socket makes the electrical connection between the towing vehicle and the trailer.
When the vehicle detects a trailer through the electrics, the consumers in the trailer are supplied
with electrical current via the electrical connection (pins 9 and 10). Pin 9 is assigned as the
permanent live, enabling operation of e.g. interior trailer lighting.
Electrical consumers such as a caravan refrigerator are supplied with power only when the engine
is running (pin 10).
To avoid overloading the electrical system, do not inter-connect the three earth wires (pins 3, 11
and 13).
If the trailer has a 7-pin plug you will need to use a suitable adapter cable. Pin 10 is then without
function.
If you are uncertain whether the electrical connection of the trailer with the vehicle is correct, please
contact a qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this
purpose.

Connection to the anti-theft alarm
The trailer is integrated in the anti-theft system if the following conditions are fulfilled:
• When the vehicle has a factory-fitted anti-theft alarm and a factory-fitted towing bracket.
• When the trailer is electrically connected to the towing vehicle via the trailer socket.
• When the vehicle and trailer electric systems are functional, fault-free and undamaged.
• When the vehicle is locked with the vehicle key and the anti-theft alarm is active.
When the vehicle is locked, the alarm will be triggered as soon as the electrical connection to the
trailer is interrupted.

Connection to the anti-theft alarm (trailer with LED tail light clusters)
For technical reasons, trailers with LED tail lights cannot be integrated into the anti-theft alarm
system.
When the vehicle is locked, the alarm is not triggered as soon as the electrical connection to the
trailer with LED rear lights is interrupted.

WARNING
Any electrical accessories which are not connected properly could cause a power surge to
the trailer. This could lead to malfunctions in the entire vehicle electronics system and
could also cause accidents and serious injuries.
• All work on the electrical system should only be carried out by a qualified workshop.
• Never connect the trailer's electrical system directly to the electrical connections of the
towing vehicle's tail light clusters or to other power sources.

WARNING
Contact between the pins in the trailer socket can lead to short circuits, overloading of the
electrical system and failure of the lighting system, thereby causing accidents and serious
injuries.
• Never connect the pins in the trailer socket to one another.
• Have bent pins repaired by a qualified workshop.

NOTICE
If you park the trailer using the support wheel or other trailer supports, disconnect the
trailer from the vehicle. The vehicle could rock up and down if the load changes or if there
is damage to the tyres, for example. If this happens, a great deal of force will be exerted on
the towing bracket and trailer, which could lead to damage to the vehicle and trailer.

If there is a fault in the vehicle or trailer electrical systems or in the anti-theft alarm or if there
is a fault in the anti-theft alarm, have the vehicle checked by a qualified workshop.
If the engine is not running and electrical equipment is switched on in the trailer via the trailer
socket, the 12-volt vehicle battery will discharge.
If the 12-volt vehicle battery charge level is low, the electrical connection to the trailer will be
interrupted automatically.

Loading the trailer
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Trailer weight and drawbar load
The trailer weight is the weight that the vehicle can pull ⇒

. The drawbar load is the load that is

exerted vertically from above onto the ball head of the towing bracket ⇒ Information on technical
data .
The figures for trailer weights and draw bar weights that are given on the data plate of the towing
bracket are for certification purposes only. The correct values for your specific model, which may be
lower than these figures, are given in the vehicle registration documents. All data in the official
vehicle documents take precedence over these data.
The maximum permitted drawbar load exerted by the trailer drawbar on the ball head of the towing
bracket must not exceed 100 kg.
In the interest of driving safety, Volkswagen recommends that you always use the maximum
drawbar load. The response of the trailer on the road will be poor if the drawbar load is too small.
The drawbar load increases the weight on the rear axle and reduces the maximum load level as a
result.

Gross combination weight rating
The combination weight is made up of the actual weight of the loaded vehicle and of the loaded
trailer.
In some countries, trailers are divided into different classes. Volkswagen recommends that you
contact a qualified workshop to find out about suitable trailers.

Loading the trailer
The weight of the load should be distributed evenly. The maximum permitted drawbar load should
be utilised. Do not place the load only at the front or the rear of the trailer:
• Distribute the load in the trailer so that heavy objects are either over or as near to the axle as
possible.
• Secure all loads on the trailer properly.

Tyre pressure
Follow the trailer manufacturer's recommendations concerning the tyre pressure for the trailer tyres.
When towing a trailer, inflate the tyres on the towing vehicle with the maximum permitted tyre
pressure ⇒ Tyre pressure .

WARNING
Accidents and serious injuries can occur if you exceed the vehicle's maximum permitted
gross axle weight rating, drawbar load, gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination
weight rating.
• Never exceed the specified values.
• Never let the actual weights at the front and rear axles exceed the gross axle weight
ratings. Never exceed the permissible gross vehicle weight for the vehicle with weight
at the front and rear of the vehicle.

WARNING
Loads that may slide can severely impair stability and driving safety, which can cause
accidents and severe injuries.
• Always load trailers correctly.
• Always secure loads properly using suitable and undamaged securing straps.

Trailer towing
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Headlight adjustment
Towing a trailer can raise the front end of the vehicle enough for the dipped beam to blind other
road users. Use the headlight range control to lower the light cone as required. Vehicles with
automatic headlight range adjustment are adjusted automatically.

Things to note when driving with a trailer
• If the trailer has an overrun brake, apply the brakes gently at first and then firmly. This will
prevent the jerking that can be caused by the trailer wheels locking.
• The combination weight causes the braking distance to increase.
• Engage a lower gear prior to inclines (manual gearbox or Tiptronic mode of the automatic
gearbox) to additionally make use of engine braking. The brake system could otherwise
overheat and fail.
• The vehicle's centre of gravity and, in turn, the vehicle's handling, will change because of the
trailer load and the increased combined towing weight of the vehicle and trailer.
• The weight distribution of a loaded trailer with an unladen towing vehicle is very unfavourable.
When driving in this situation, drive particularly carefully and slowly.

Pulling off on slopes when towing a trailer
A vehicle towing a trailer is liable to roll back a short distance when moving off on a slope,
depending on the angle of the slope and the total weight of the trailer and vehicle.
When towing a trailer, pull off on slopes as follows:
• Depress and hold the brake pedal.
once to switch off the electronic parking brake ⇒ Electronic parking

• Press button
brake .

• Manual gearbox: depress the clutch fully.
®

• Select first gear ⇒ Manual gearbox: selecting a gear or selector lever position D/S⇒ DSG dual
clutch gearbox .
• Pull on the

button and hold it in this position to hold the vehicle and trailer with the

electronic parking brake.
• Release the brake pedal.
• Pull away slowly. To do this, slowly release the clutch pedal for a manual gearbox.
• Only let go of the

button when the engine has sufficient power to move off.

WARNING
Incorrect trailer towing can cause loss of vehicle control and serious personal injury.
• Towing a trailer and transporting heavy or bulky items can change the way the vehicle
handles and increase the braking distance.
• Always drive carefully and think ahead. Brake earlier than in normal driving.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions. Reduce your speed, particularly when going downhill.
• Accelerate carefully and gently. Avoid abrupt and sudden driving and braking
manoeuvres.
• Take special care when overtaking. Reduce your speed immediately if the trailer shows
even the slightest sign of snaking.
• Never try to stop a trailer from snaking by increasing your speed.
• Keep to speed limits which may be lower for vehicles with trailers than for vehicles
without trailers.

Trailer stabilisation
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The trailer stabilisation function can detect if an attached trailer is starting to lurch from side to side
and can provide countersteer.
Trailer stabilisation is a subsidiary function of the Electronic Stability Control (ESC).

If a lurching motion is detected, the trailer stabilisation function automatically helps to reduce the
trailer's rocking motion using counter steering assistance.

Requirements for trailer stabilisation
• The vehicle is a factory-fitted towing bracket or a compatible towing bracket is fitted.
• Electronic Stability Control and the traction control system (TCS) are active. The indicator lamp
or

in the instrument cluster is not lit up.

• The trailer is electrically connected to the towing vehicle via the trailer socket.
• The vehicle speed is higher than approximately 60 km/h (37 mph).
• The maximum drawbar load is being carried.
• The trailer must have a rigid drawbar.
• Trailers with brakes must have a mechanical overrun system.

WARNING
Do not let the extra safety afforded by the trailer stabilisation function tempt you into
taking any risks when driving – this can cause accidents.
• Always adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Accelerate carefully on slippery surfaces.
• Take your foot off the accelerator if one of the systems is active.

WARNING
The trailer stabilisation function may not be able to detect all driving situations correctly.
• Trailer stabilisation is switched off when ESC is deactivated.
• Light trailers that are snaking will not be recognised by the trailer stabilisation function
and stabilised accordingly in all cases.
• A trailer can still jack-knife on slippery roads with little grip, even if the towing vehicle
is equipped with trailer stabilisation.
• Trailers with a high centre of gravity might tip over before snaking starts.
• Sudden braking procedures could occur automatically in extreme driving situations if
the trailer socket is being used without a trailer (e.g. for a bicycle carrier with lighting).

Retrofitting a towing bracket

Fig. 194 Dimensions and attachment points for retrofitting a towing bracket.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Volkswagen recommends having the towing bracket retrofitted by a qualified workshop. The cooling
system may need to be modified or heat shields may need to be fitted. Volkswagen recommends
using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Dimensions
The dimensions ⇒ Fig. 194 must be adhered to for the retro-fitting of a towing bracket. Always
observe the minimum distance given from the middle of the ball coupling Ⓕ to the surface of the
road. This also applies when the vehicle is fully laden, including maximum drawbar load.

Attachment points
989 mm
595 mm
348 mm
At least 65 mm
350 – 420 mm
1,061 – 1,066 mm

WARNING
Electrical accessories that are not connected properly can cause malfunctions in the
entire vehicle electronics system and also cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Never connect the trailer's electrical system directly to the electrical connections of the
tail lights or to other unsuitable sources of electricity. Only a suitable connector may
be used to connect the trailer.
• A towing bracket should be retrofitted to the vehicle by a qualified workshop.

WARNING
The trailer can become detached from the towing vehicle if the towing bracket is
unsuitable or incorrectly fitted. This can cause serious accidents and fatal injuries.

Only use towing brackets which have been approved by Volkswagen for your vehicle type.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The ball head on the towing bracket is not locked. Check towing bracket lock ⇒ Electrically
adjustable ball coupling .

Fuel and emission control

Safety instructions for handling fuel

WARNING
Incorrect handling of fuel can cause explosions, fire, serious burns and other injuries.
• Switch off the auxiliary heater⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation , the engine, the
ignition, your mobile phone and other wireless equipment while refuelling.
• Do not get into the vehicle to avoid electrostatic discharge.
• Make sure that the tank cap is closed properly and no fuel can escape.
• Comply with any relevant safety information and legislation concerning the handling of
fuels.

CAUTION
Fuel may run out of the fuel canister. This could cause fire and injuries.
• Do not carry fuel canisters in the vehicle.

NOTICE
Incorrect refuelling can lead to damage to the vehicle.
• Only use fuels that have been approved for the vehicle.
• Do not use fuels containing metals and only use approved additives.
• Spilt fuel should be removed from all vehicle components immediately.

Fuels can pollute the environment. Any spilt service fluids must be cleaned up and disposed
of properly.

The tank flap cannot be opened manually. Seek expert assistance.

Fuel types and refuelling
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Petrol
⇒ Diesel
⇒ Refuelling
⇒ Misfuelling prevention device
The tank flap is located at the rear right-hand side of the vehicle ⇒ Side view .
Different engines require different fuels. The factory-fitted sticker on the inside of the tank flap
indicates the required fuel type for your vehicle.
Information on indicator and warning lamps can be found in the troubleshooting section at the end
of the chapter ⇒ Troubleshooting .

Petrol
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Vehicles with a petrol engine must be run on unleaded petrol. Fuels with a maximum ethanol
content of 10% (E10) can be used for refuelling ⇒

.

The petrol grades differ with respect to the octane number. The vehicle may be filled with petrol that
has a higher octane number than the engine requires. However, this does not provide any
advantage in terms of fuel consumption or engine output.
The fuel quality affects the running properties, performance and service life of the engine. You
should therefore use fuel that already contains suitable service additives if possible ⇒

.

Information on the fuel standards can be found in the chapter on fuel standards ⇒ Fuel standards .

NOTICE
Incorrect refuelling or unsuitable fuel additives may cause damage to the vehicle.
• Before refuelling, check whether the fuel standard information provided on the pump
conforms to the requirements of the vehicle.
• Use only Volkswagen-approved service additives in the approved quantity.
• If, in an emergency, you have to use petrol with an octane number lower than the
recommended number, drive at medium engine speeds and avoid high engine loading.
Avoid high engine speeds and heavy engine loads. Failure to do so can result in engine
damage. Fill the tank with petrol with the correct octane number as soon as possible.

Diesel
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Vehicles with a diesel engine must be run on diesel ⇒

. If you use diesel with a high sulphur

content, the service intervals are shorter ⇒ Service . Information on countries that use diesel with a
high sulphur content is available from your Volkswagen dealership.
The fuel quality affects the running properties, performance and service life of the engine. You
should therefore use fuel that already contains suitable service additives if possible ⇒

.

Information on the fuel standards can be found in the chapter on fuel standards ⇒ Fuel standards .

Winter-grade diesel fuel and filter preheater system
Winter-grade diesel fuel, which can be used at temperatures below -20°C (-4°F), is available during
the cold months. In countries with different climates, diesel for other temperature conditions is
usually available. Information is available from your Volkswagen dealership and filling stations in
the respective country.
Diesel vehicles are equipped with a filter pre-heater system. When using winter-grade diesel fuel,
the fuel system is safe for operation at temperatures down to around -24°C (-11°F).
However, if the fuel has waxed to such an extent that the engine will not start at temperatures
below -24°C (-11°F), place the vehicle in a heated garage or workshop for a while ⇒

.

WARNING
Start boosters may explode or suddenly cause the engine to run at high revs. This can
cause injuries or damage to the engine.
• Never use a start booster.

NOTICE
Incorrect refuelling can lead to damage to the vehicle.
• Before refuelling, check whether the fuel standard information provided on the pump
conforms to the requirements of the vehicle.
• Do not refuel with RME fuel, petrol, fuel oil or other unsuitable fuels.
• Use only Volkswagen-approved service additives in the approved quantity.

At cold temperatures, louder noises may occur in the diesel engine and the exhaust gas may
be tinged blue.

Refuelling

Fig. 195 Behind the tank flap: tank cap.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
See the chapter on technical data for information on filling capacities ⇒ Fuel tank capacity .

Refuelling process
• Unlock the tank flap with the vehicle key or the

button in the driver door.

• Open the tank flap.
• Unscrew the tank cap and place it in the holder on the tank flap.
• The fuel tank is full when the properly operated automatic filler nozzle clicks off for the first time

⇒

.

• Screw the tank cap onto the filler neck.
• Close the tank flap.

WARNING
Overfilling the fuel tank may cause the fuel to splash out and overflow. This can cause
fires, explosions and serious injuries.
• Do not continue refuelling when the petrol nozzle switches off for the first time.

NOTICE
Do not fill up with fuel that has a lower Research Octane Number (RON) than specified. The
engine could otherwise be damaged.

Misfuelling prevention device

Fig. 196 In the tank filler neck: misfuelling prevention device.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The tank filler neck in diesel vehicles can be fitted with a misfuelling prevention device ⇒ Fig. 196 .
The misfuelling prevention device ensures that the vehicle can be refuelled only using diesel pump
nozzles.
Turn the diesel nozzle to and fro if the misfuelling prevention device gets stuck. This can open the
misfuelling prevention device and make it possible to refuel the vehicle. If the misfuelling prevention
device remains closed, proceed to a qualified workshop to have the system checked.
If it is necessary to refuel the vehicle using a spare fuel canister in the event of an emergency, the
misfuelling prevention device will not open. In order to fill the tank with fuel, pour the diesel into the
tank extremely slowly in very small quantities.

Components relevant to emission control

Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Emission control with AdBlue
⇒ Catalytic converter
⇒ Particulate filter
⇒ Troubleshooting
®

• Emission control with AdBlue ⇒ Emission control with AdBlue

®

• Catalytic converter ⇒ Catalytic converter
• Particulate filter ⇒ Particulate filter
Information on indicator and warning lamps can be found in the troubleshooting section at the end
of the chapter ⇒ Troubleshooting .

WARNING
Engine emissions contain carbon monoxide that can cause people to lose consciousness
and can also cause death.
• Never start or run the engine in closed spaces.
• Never leave the engine running if you leave the vehicle unattended.

WARNING
The components of the exhaust system become very hot. This can cause fires.
• Park the vehicle so that no part of the exhaust system can come into contact with any
inflammable material underneath the vehicle, e.g. dry grass.
• Never apply additional underseal or anti-corrosion coatings to the exhaust pipes,
catalytic converters, particulate filter or heat shields.

®

Emission control with AdBlue

Fig. 197 Behind the tank flap: tank cap for AdBlue.

Fig. 198 Behind the tank flap: refilling AdBlue with the refill bottle or nozzle.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key for ⇒ Fig. 197 and ⇒ Fig. 198 :
Tank filler neck cap.
Refill bottle.
Filler nozzle.
®

AdBlue is a registered trademark and is also known as AUS32 or DEF (Diesel Exhaust Fluid).
®

The AdBlue consumption figures depend on the driving style, the operating temperature and the
ambient temperature. The remaining range and refill quantity can be checked on the instrument
cluster display.
®

The AdBlue tank must never run empty. As of a remaining distance of approximately 2,400 km,
the instrument cluster display will indicate that the AdBlue must be refilled ⇒ Troubleshooting .

Preparing to refill
• Stop vehicle on a level surface.
• Switch off the ignition.
®

• Only use AdBlue that complies with the standard ISO 22241-1 ⇒

Opening the tank filler neck
• Open the tank flap.

.

• Unscrew the cap on the filler neck.
®

Refilling AdBlue with the refill bottle
• Please read the manufacturer's notes and information on the refill bottle.
• Observe the expiry date.
• Remove the screw top of the refill bottle.
• Place the refill bottle on the tank filler neck and screw tightly in place.
• Press and hold the refill bottle.
®

®

• The AdBlue tank is full when AdBlue no longer flows out of the refill bottle ⇒

.

• Unscrew the refill bottle and remove upwards.
®

Refilling AdBlue with the filler nozzle
®

Do not fill fuel and AdBlue at the same time.
®

• The procedure for refilling with an AdBlue filler nozzle is the same as for refilling the fuel tank
with fuel.
• The handle of the filler nozzle must point downwards in order to prevent overfilling the AdBlue

®

tank.
®

• The AdBlue tank is full as soon as the filler nozzle clicks off for the first time. Do not continue
®

®

filling the tank! The AdBlue tank could be damaged by overfilling and AdBlue could escape⇒
.

Closing the tank filler neck
• Screw in the cap on the filler neck until it engages.
• Close the tank flap.

Preparing to drive on
• Switch on only the ignition for 30 seconds.
• The system detects that the tank has been refilled.
• Do not start the engine until the 30 seconds have elapsed.

CAUTION
®

AdBlue is an irritant and corrosive fluid that can damage the skin, eyes and breathing
passages upon contact.
®

• Always observe the instructions for use when using AdBlue . If containers are used
according to the instructions, it is unlikely that a user will come into contact with
®

AdBlue .
®

• AdBlue must be kept in the closed original container. Never use empty food
containers, bottles or other containers for this purpose.
• Always store in a safe place out of reach of children.
®

• If AdBlue gets into the eyes, immediately rinse the eyes with plenty of water for at
least 15 minutes and consult a doctor.
®

• If AdBlue gets onto the skin, immediately wash the area with plenty of water for at
least 15 minutes and consult a doctor if the skin becomes irritated.
®

• If AdBlue is swallowed, immediately rinse the mouth out with lots of water for at least
15 minutes. Do not induce vomiting unless instructed to do so by a doctor. Seek
medical assistance immediately.

NOTICE
®

Overfilling AdBlue may damage the tank system and the vehicle.
• Do not fill with more than the maximum refill quantity indicated on the instrument
cluster display.
®

• Remove any spilt AdBlue as quickly as possible with a damp cloth and plenty of cold
water.
®

• If the AdBlue has already formed crystals, use warm water and a sponge to remove.

NOTICE
®

Improper use of AdBlue may cause damage to the vehicle that is not covered by the
warranty.
®

• Only use AdBlue that complies with the standard ISO 22241-1.
• Do not mix with water, fuel or additives.
®

• Never fill AdBlue in the diesel tank.
• Do not transport the refill bottle in the vehicle habitually. The bottle may develop a leak
®

following changes in temperature and damage and the AdBlue may damage the
vehicle interior.

The refill bottle must be disposed of in accordance with regulations governing the protection
of the environment.

Catalytic converter
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
To help ensure long-term functionality in the exhaust system and the catalytic converter:
• Use unleaded petrol only ⇒ Fuel types and refuelling .
• Do not allow the fuel tank to run completely empty.
• Do not overfill engine oil ⇒ Engine oil .
• Do not tow start the vehicle. Use jump leads ⇒ Jump starting .
If you notice misfiring, uneven running or loss of power when the vehicle is moving, reduce speed
immediately. The vehicle should be inspected at the nearest qualified workshop

⇒ Troubleshooting . If this happens, unburnt fuel can enter the exhaust system and escape into the
atmosphere. The catalytic converter can also be damaged by overheating.
The emissions may have a sulphur-like smell even if the emission purification system is
working properly.

Particulate filter
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Function
The particulate filter filters out soot particles in the exhaust gas. Observe the following points to
ensure that the exhaust purification system will work properly for a long time:

• Only refuel with fuels that are suitable for the vehicle ⇒ Fuel types and refuelling .
• Do not allow the fuel tank to run completely empty.
• Use only suitable engine oil for the vehicle and do not overfill ⇒ Engine oil .
• Do not tow start the vehicle. Use jump leads ⇒ Jump starting .

Periodic regeneration
The soot in the particulate filter is burnt off at high temperatures on a periodic basis.
To assist the regeneration of the particulate filter, Volkswagen recommends that you avoid making
only short journeys.
Noises, slight smells and increased engine speeds may occur during regeneration. The radiator fan
may run on while the vehicle is moving or when the engine has been switched off.

During the periodic regeneration process, the yellow indicator lamp

does not light

up.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Irregular engine running and malfunctions
If the engine shows signs of irregular running or malfunctions while you are driving, this may mean
that the fuel is of poor quality. Reduce speed immediately. Drive to nearest qualified workshop at
medium engine speeds and low loads on the engine.
If these symptoms occur directly after refuelling, switch off the engine immediately to avoid any
subsequent damage. You should obtain professional assistance.

1)

Warning and indicator lamps

Lights up together with the red warning lamp

: fault in the selective catalytic reduction

system. The engine cannot be restarted! Drive straight to a qualified workshop without switching
off the engine and have the system checked ⇒

®

.

AdBlue level too low. The engine cannot
®

be restarted! Switch off the vehicle and refill the AdBlue minimum quantity according to
®

⇒ Emission control with AdBlue ⇒

.

Lights up together with the yellow warning lamp

: the selective catalytic reduction system is faulty or not filled with standard-compliant
®

AdBlue . Drive immediately to a qualified workshop and have the system checked.

AdBlue

®

®

level too low. Refill AdBlue within the displayed remaining range in accordance with ⇒ Emission
®

control with AdBlue ⇒

.

The particulate filter is saturated with soot and requires

regeneration. Driving at speeds between 50 - 120 km/h (31 - 75 mph) will support regeneration.
Observe the relevant speed limits and the gear recommendation. The indicator lamp goes out
automatically when the particulate filter has been regenerated. If the indicator lamp is still lit up after
driving for around 30 minutes, seek expert assistance immediately.
the engine checked by a qualified workshop.

Lit up: malfunction. Have

Flashing: misfiring, which damages the catalytic

converter. Drive immediately to the nearest qualified workshop and have the engine checked.

NOTICE
®

If the AdBlue level is too low, the vehicle cannot be restarted after the ignition has been
switched off. Starting with jump leads is also not possible.
®

• Refill AdBlue at the latest when the remaining distance reaches approximately
1,000 km.
®

• Never allow the AdBlue tank to run empty.

There may be engine faults and fuel consumption may be higher if the indicator lamps are lit
up or flashing.
1)

Colour display only on an instrument cluster with colour display.

Fuel standards
Petrol
Vehicles with a petrol engine must be run on petrol in compliance with the European standard
EN 228 or the German standard DIN 51626-1 ⇒

.

Where petrol complying with the specified standard is not available, Volkswagen dealerships will
have information on what fuels are suitable for the vehicle.

Diesel
Vehicles with a diesel engine must be run on diesel in compliance with the European standard
EN 590 or the German standard DIN 590 ⇒

.

Where diesel complying with the specified standard is not available, Volkswagen dealerships will
have information on what kind of diesel is suitable for the vehicle.

NOTICE
Using fuel that does not comply with these standards may reduce performance and cause
damage to the engine and fuel system.
• Before refuelling, check whether the fuel standard on the pump meets the vehicle's
requirements.
• Use only fuels that meet the required standards in order to prevent damage to the fuel
system and engine failure.

If and when
Vehicle toolkit
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Stowage
⇒ Contents
⇒ Collapsible chock
Observe any country-specific legislation when securing your vehicle in the event of a breakdown.

WARNING
In the event of a sudden driving or braking manoeuvre or accident, a loose vehicle tool kit,
breakdown set and spare wheel or temporary spare wheel could be flung though the
vehicle and cause severe injuries.
• Ensure that the vehicle toolkit, breakdown set and spare wheel or temporary spare
wheel are always secured in the luggage compartment.

WARNING
Unsuitable or damaged tools in the vehicle toolkit can lead to accidents and injuries.
• Never work with unsuitable or damaged tools from the vehicle toolkit.

Stowage
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The vehicle tool kit may be located in various positions in the luggage compartment:
• In a bag on the left or right in the stowage areas of the luggage compartment ⇒ Luggage
compartment equipment .
• In a foam rubber holder under the luggage compartment floor ⇒ Luggage compartment
equipment .
In some models, the luggage compartment may contain a loose box with a vehicle tool kit. This
supplied vehicle tool kit is intended for a possible switch of winter tyres and does not need to be
carried in the vehicle at all times.

After using the vehicle jack, crank it back to its original position so that it can be stored
safely.

Contents

Fig. 199 Contents of the vehicle tool kit.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The content of the vehicle toolkit is determined by the vehicle equipment level ⇒ Fig. 199 . The
following describes the maximum scope.
Vehicle tool kit components:

Screwdriver with hexagon socket in the handle for slackened wheel bolts. The screwdriver
blade is reversible. The screwdriver may be stowed under the box spanner.
Adapter for the anti-theft wheel bolts. Volkswagen recommends that you carry the wheel
bolt adapter in the vehicle tool kit at all times. The code number of the anti-theft wheel bolt is
engraved on the front of the adapter. You will need this number to replace the adapter if lost.
Make a note of the code number for the anti-theft wheel bolt and keep it in a safe place – but
not inside the vehicle.
Removable towing eye.
Wire hook for pulling off the centre cover, wheel covers and the wheel bolt caps.
Vehicle jack. Before you return the jack to the foam rubber holder, you must wind the claw
in fully.
Box spanner for wheel bolts.
Crank.
Collapsible chock ⇒ Collapsible chock .

Vehicle jack: maintenance
There are no maintenance cycles for the vehicle jack. Grease it with universal lubricant when
necessary.

Collapsible chock

Fig. 200 Folding out the collapsible chock.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The collapsible chock is stored with the vehicle tool kit ⇒ Stowage .

Design of the collapsible chock
• Lift up the support plate ⇒ Fig. 200 ①.
• Insert the two lugs on the securing plate into the slots on the base plate ⇒ Fig. 200 ②.

Correct usage
The collapsible chock can be used to chock the wheel that is diagonally opposite the wheel that is
being changed.
The collapsible chock must be placed directly in front of or behind the wheel. They must only be
used on a solid surface.

WARNING
Assembling and using the collapsible chocks incorrectly can cause accidents and
injuries.
• Never use damaged collapsible chocks.
• Never use the collapsible chocks to secure the vehicle if it is located on a slope.

Wiper blades
Service position

Fig. 201 Wiper blades in service position.

The wiper arms can be lifted off the windscreen when in the service position. Proceed as follows to
move the wipers to the service position ⇒ Fig. 201 :

Activating the service position
• The bonnet must be closed ⇒ In the engine compartment .
• Switch the ignition on and then off again.
• Push the wiper lever downwards.

Lifting the windscreen wiper arms
• Move the wiper arms to the service position before lifting ⇒

.

• When lifting the wiper arm hold it only by the wiper blade mounting.
Place the windscreen wiper arms back onto the windscreen before driving away. With the ignition
switched on, briefly press the windscreen wiper lever down to bring the windscreen wiper arms
back to the original position.

NOTICE
• In order to prevent damage to the bonnet and the windscreen wiper arms, the
windscreen wiper arms should only be lifted when in the service position.
• Always return the windscreen wiper arms to the windscreen before starting your
journey.

Cleaning and replacing the wiper blades

Fig. 202 Changing the windscreen wiper blades.

Fig. 203 Changing the rear window wiper blade.

The factory-fitted windscreen wiper blades are coated with graphite. The graphite coating ensures
that the windscreen wiper blade moves quietly over the windscreen. If the graphite coating is
damaged, the windscreen wiper will become louder.
Check the condition of the wiper blades on a regular basis. Rubbing wiper blades should be
changed if damaged or cleaned if dirty ⇒

.

Damaged wiper blades should be replaced immediately. Windscreen wiper blades can be bought
from a qualified workshop.

Cleaning windscreen wiper blades
Note for the windscreen wipers: move the wiper arms to the service position before lifting them

⇒ Wipers .
• When lifting the wiper arm hold it only by the wiper blade mounting.
• Clean the wiper blades carefully using a damp sponge ⇒

.

• Carefully place the wiper arms on the windscreen.

Changing the windscreen wiper blades
• Move the wiper arms to the service position before lifting ⇒ Wipers .
• When lifting the wiper arm hold it only by the wiper blade mounting.
• Press and hold the release button ⇒ Fig. 202 ① and simultaneously pull off the wiper blade in
the direction of the arrow.
• Insert a new wiper blade with the same length and design onto the wiper arm. Push it on until
it engages.
• Carefully place the wiper arms on the windscreen.

Changing the wiper blade for the rear window
• When lifting the wiper arm hold it only by the wiper blade mounting.
• Lift and fold back the wiper arm.
• Press and hold the release button ⇒ Fig. 203 ①.
• Tilt the wiper blade in the direction of the wiper arm ⇒ Fig. 203 (arrow Ⓐ) and pull it off in the
direction of the arrow Ⓑ at the same time. You may need to use some force to do this.
• Insert a new wiper blade with the same length and design onto the wiper arm in the opposite
direction of the arrow. Push it on until it engages ⇒ Fig. 203 Ⓑ. The wiper blade must be in the
folded back position ⇒ Fig. 203 (arrow Ⓐ).
• Carefully place the wiper arm back onto the rear window.

WARNING
Worn or dirty windscreen wiper blades reduce visibility and increase the risk of accidents
and severe injuries.
• Always change wiper blades if they are damaged or worn and no longer clean the
window properly.

NOTICE
Damaged or dirty windscreen wipers can scratch the windscreen.
• Do not use any cleaning agents containing solvents, hard sponges and other sharp
objects, as they can damage the graphite coating of the wiper blades during cleaning.
• Do not use fuel, nail varnish remover, paint thinner or similar products to clean the
windows.

Wax deposits on the windscreen and rear window could cause the wiper blades to rub.
Remove wax residue using a special cleaning product or cleaning cloths.

Changing bulbs

Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Checklist
⇒ Changing bulbs in the headlights (halogen bulbs)
⇒ Changing bulbs in the front bumper
⇒ Changing bulbs in the front bumper (R-Line)
⇒ Changing the bulbs in the tail light cluster in the body
⇒ Troubleshooting
Changing the vehicle bulbs requires considerable technical skill. Volkswagen therefore
recommends having bulbs replaced by a qualified workshop if you are uncertain. The work must
always be performed by an expert if other vehicle parts around the affected bulbs need to be
removed. Volkswagen recommends having bulbs replaced by a Volkswagen dealership.
You should keep a box with spare light bulbs for the lights that ensure the vehicle is roadworthy in
the vehicle at all times. Spare bulbs are available from Volkswagen dealerships. In some countries
it is a legal requirement to have these spare bulbs in the vehicle.
It may be illegal to drive with a defective bulb in the exterior lighting.

You can change the following bulbs yourself:
• Bulbs in the halogen headlight: dipped beam, main beam, daytime running light, side light, turn
signal.
• Bulbs in front bumper: fog lights, static cornering light.
• Bulbs in the tail light clusters: rear turn signal, if it does not feature LED technology (depending
on vehicle equipment level).
All other bulbs and lamps in the vehicle should always be changed by an expert.

Additional bulb specifications
Some bulbs in headlights or in tail light clusters might have factory specifications that are different
to standard bulbs. The designation is inscribed on the bulb, either on the glass part or on the base.

LED bulbs on the vehicle
• Brake light, rear fog light, tail light, turn signal and reversing light in the tail light clusters.
• Dipped beam, main beam, daytime running lights, static cornering light, side lights and turn
signal.
• Number plate light.
Owners cannot replace the LEDs themselves. If some LEDs fail, this may be an indication that
more elements are on the point of failure. If this happens, have the bulbs checked and replaced if
necessary at a qualified workshop.

WARNING
Accidents can occur if roads are not sufficiently illuminated and other road users have
difficulty seeing the vehicle, or cannot see it at all.

WARNING
Changing the bulb incorrectly can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• When working in the engine compartment, always read and observe the safety
warnings ⇒ In the engine compartment . The engine compartment of any motor vehicle
is a dangerous area. Serious injuries can be sustained here.
• H7/H15 bulbs are pressurised and could explode when they are being changed.
• Only change the defective bulb once it has had time to cool down completely.
• Never change a bulb unless you are familiar with the procedure. If you are uncertain of
what to do, the work should be carried out by a qualified workshop.
• Do not touch the glass part of the bulb with unprotected fingers. When the light is
switched on, heat will cause fingerprints to evaporate on the bulb, which in turn will
cause the reflector to dim.
• There are sharp-edged parts in the headlight housing in the engine compartment and
on the tail light cluster housing. Protect your hands when changing bulbs.

NOTICE
Damage to the electrical system can be caused by water entering the system if the rubber
covers or plastic caps on the headlight housing are not properly mounted after a bulb has
been changed.

Checklist Information on changing bulbs
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Checklist
Always carry out the following actions for changing a bulb in the given order ⇒

:

Park the vehicle on a firm and level surface at a safe distance from the flow of traffic.
Switch on the electronic parking brake Electronic parking brake.
Turn the light switch to position 0 Lights.
Move the turn signal lever to neutral position Lights.
Move the automatic gearbox selector lever to position P DSG® dual clutch gearbox.
Switch off the ignition and remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock Starting and
stopping the engine.
Manual gearbox: select a gear Manual gearbox: selecting a gear.
Switch off the orientation lighting Lights.
Leave the defective bulbs to cool down.

Check to see if a fuse has blown Changing fuses.
Follow the instructions to change the affected bulb . Always use identical bulbs with the
same designation. The designation is inscribed on the bulb, either on the glass part or on
the base.
Do not touch the glass part of the bulb with unprotected fingers. The heat of the bulb would
cause the fingerprint to evaporate and condense on the reflector. This will impair the
brightness of the headlight.
After changing the bulb, check to ensure that the bulb is working properly. If the bulb is not
working properly, the bulb may not have been inserted properly or may have failed again,
or the connector may have been inserted incorrectly.
Any time you change a bulb in the front of the vehicle, the headlight settings should be
checked by a qualified workshop.

WARNING
Ignoring any of the items on this important safety checklist can lead to accidents and
severe injuries.
• Always follow the instructions in the checklist and observe the general safety
procedures.

NOTICE
Always take care when removing or fitting lights to prevent damage to the paintwork or to
other vehicle parts.

Changing bulbs in the headlights (halogen bulbs)

Fig. 204 In the engine compartment: covers and bulbs on the left front headlight.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The front headlight does not need to be removed when changing bulbs.
The actions should only be carried out in the specified order:

⇒ Fig. 204

1.

Dipped beam
Side
headlights
lights/daytime
running lights

4.

5.
6.
7.

Main beam
headlights

Observe and follow the instructions on the checklist ⇒ Checklist Information on
changing bulbs .

⇒ In the engine compartment .

Open the bonnet

2.

3.

Turn signal

Pull off the rubber

Pull off the rubber

Pull off the rubber

cover ①

cover ①

cover ②

from

the back of the

from

from

the back of the

the back of the

headlight.

headlight.

headlight.

Turn the bulb

Turn the bulb

holder ③

holder ④

anticlockwise as

anticlockwise as

far as it will go and

far as it will go and

pull it out to the

pull it out to the

rear along with the

rear along with the

bulb.

bulb.

Turn the bulb

Turn the bulb holder

holder ⑤

⑥

anticlockwise

anticlockwise as far

as far as it will go

as it will go and pull

and pull it out to the

it out to the rear

rear along with the

along with the bulb.

bulb.

If applicable, push the catch on the bulb holder and pull the bulb straight out of the
bulb holder.
Replace the defective bulb with a new bulb of the same type.

⇒ Fig. 204

Dipped beam
Side
headlights
lights/daytime
running lights
Insert the bulb
holder ③

into

the headlight and

8.

Insert the bulb
holder ④

into

Turn signal

Main beam
headlights

Insert the bulb

Insert the bulb holder

holder ⑤

into

into the

⑥

the headlight and

the headlight and

headlight and turn it

turn it clockwise as turn it clockwise as

turn it clockwise as

clockwise as far as it

far as it will go.

far as it will go.

Fit the rubber

Fit the rubber

cover ①

.

cover ①
Close the bonnet

9.

far as it will go.

will go.
Fit the rubber cover

.

②

.

⇒ In the engine compartment .

The illustrations show the left-hand headlight from the rear. The right-hand headlight is a
mirror image of the one shown.
There are various types of headlight, so the position and design of covers, bulbs and bulb
holders may vary from those shown in the illustrations.
It is not possible for customers to change the LEDs in daytime running lights with LED
technology. Go to a qualified workshop.

Changing bulbs in the front bumper

Fig. 205 In the front bumper, right-hand side: remove the fog light.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The actions should only be carried out in the specified order:
1.

2.

3.

Observe and follow the instructions on the checklist ⇒ Checklist Information on
changing bulbs .
Take the wire hook from the tool kit and insert it in the opening in the cover

⇒ Fig. 205 . Pull the cover forwards in the direction of the arrow.
Use the screwdriver from the vehicle tool kit to unscrew the securing screw

⇒ Fig. 205 ① ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .

4.

Pull the headlight out of the bumper towards the outside of the vehicle.

5.

Release the connector and pull it off.

6.

Turn the bulb holder anticlockwise as far as it will go and pull it out to the rear
along with the bulb.

7.

Replace the defective bulb with a new bulb of the same type.

8.

Insert the bulb holder into the headlight and turn it clockwise as far as it will go.

9.

Connect the connector to the bulb holder. The connector should click into place.

10.

Push the headlight from the outside into the openings and insert into the bumper.

11.

Use the screwdriver to tighten the securing bolts ⇒ Fig. 205 ①.

12.

Replace the cover in the bumper ⇒ Fig. 205 .

13.

Stow the wire hook and screwdriver in the vehicle tool kit.

NOTICE
• Please ensure that the electrical connection on the headlight housing is positioned
properly in order to prevent damage to the electrical system caused by water entering
the system.
• When removing and refitting the headlight, make sure that the vehicle's paintwork is
not damaged.

Changing bulbs in the front bumper (R-Line)

Fig. 206 In the front R-Line bumper, right-hand side: remove the fog light.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

The actions should only be carried out in the specified order:
1.
2.

3.

Follow the instructions on the checklist.
Take the screwdriver and wire hook out of the vehicle tool kit in the luggage
compartment ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .
Hook the wire hook into the opening on the cover under the fog light ⇒ Fig. 206

. Pull

the cover forwards in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 206 ①

.

4.

Unscrew the two securing screws ②

with the screwdriver.

5.

Unclip the trim panel ③

6.

Unscrew the two securing screws in the fog light ④

7.

Pull the headlight out of the bumper towards the outside of the vehicle.

8.

Release the connector and pull it off.

9.

in the trim panel ③

and remove in the direction of the arrow.
(close-up) with the screwdriver.

Turn the bulb holder anticlockwise as far as it will go and pull it out to the rear along with
the bulb.

10.

Replace the defective bulb with a new bulb of the same type.

11.

Insert the bulb holder into the headlight and turn it clockwise as far as it will go.

12.

Connect the connector to the bulb holder. The connector should click into place.

13.

Push the headlight from the outside into the openings and insert into the bumper.

14.

Tighten the two securing screws in the fog light ④

15.
16.
17.
18.

Insert the trim panel ③

(close-up) with the screwdriver.

into the bumper in the opposite direction to the arrow. The

trim panel must click into place securely.
Tighten the two securing screws ②
Insert the cover ①

in the trim panel ③

with the screwdriver.

into the bumper in the opposite direction to the arrow. The cover

must click into place securely.
Stow the wire hook and screwdriver in the vehicle tool kit.

Changing the bulbs in the tail light cluster in the body

Fig. 207 On the side of the luggage compartment: removing the tail light cluster.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The steps should only be carried out in the specified order.

Removing the tail light cluster
1.
2.
3.

Observe and follow the instructions on the checklist ⇒ Checklist Information on
changing bulbs .
Open the boot lid ⇒ Boot lid .
Open the section of side trim in the luggage compartment near the tail light cluster in
the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 207 .
Press the red catch ⇒ Fig. 207 ① on the connector and pull out the connector

4.

⇒ Fig. 207 ②. If necessary, use the screwdriver from the vehicle tool kit to undo the
red catch.

5.
6.

Release the securing bolt anticlockwise ⇒ Fig. 207 ③.
Carefully pull the tail light cluster to the rear to remove it from the body. Place it on a
clean, smooth surface.

Changing the bulb
Turn the bulb holder anticlockwise as far as it will go and carefully pull it out of the tail

7.

light cluster together with the bulb.

9.

Replace the defective bulb with a new bulb of the same type.
Carefully insert the bulb holder into the tail light cluster and turn it anticlockwise until

10.

the bulb holder engages.

Fitting the tail light cluster
11.

Carefully put the tail light cluster into the opening in the body.
Use one hand to hold the tail light in the fitting position while using the other hand to

12.

screw the securing bolt firmly back in ⇒ Fig. 207 ③.

13.

Check that the tail light cluster is positioned correctly and securely.

14.

Connect the connector to the bulb holder and press into place.
Close the section of side trim in the luggage compartment near the tail light cluster

15.

against the direction of the arrow
Close the boot lid ⇒ Boot lid .

16.

The illustrations show the left-hand tail light cluster. The right-hand tail light cluster housing is
a mirror image of the one shown.
There are various types of tail light cluster, so the position and design of covers, bulbs and
bulb holders may vary from those shown in the illustrations.
In tail light clusters with LEDs, some light elements may be fitted with normal bulbs. These
bulbs can be changed.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Lighting
Vehicle lighting not working partially or completely. A separate display appears in the
instrument cluster if there is a cornering light fault.

A trailer turn signal or all trailer lights have

stopped working.
Check the exterior lighting and change the appropriate bulb as required ⇒ Changing bulbs . If all
bulbs are OK or there is a fault in the dynamic cornering light, go to a qualified workshop.

Monitoring the lights on a connected trailer
For vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket, the vehicle will also monitor certain bulbs on a
trailer which has been connected properly via the trailer socket.
If a trailer turn signal or all the trailer lights fail, the indicator lamp

in the instrument cluster will

go out.

Changing fuses
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Fuses in the dash panel
⇒ Fuses in the engine compartment
⇒ Fuse table for fuses in the dash panel
⇒ Fuse tables for fuses in the engine compartment
⇒ Changing a blown fuse
At the time of print we are unable to provide an complete overview of the locations of the fuses for
the electrical consumers. This is because the vehicle is under constant development, because
fuses are assigned differently depending on the vehicle equipment level and because several
consumers may use a single fuse. You can get more information about the fuse layout from a
Volkswagen dealership.
Several electrical consumers could share a single fuse. Conversely, a single consumer could have
more than one fuse.
Therefore fuses should only be replaced when the cause of the fault has been rectified. If a new
fuse blows shortly after insertion, have the electrical system checked by a qualified workshop as
soon as possible.

WARNING
High voltages in the electrical system can cause electric shocks, serious burns and death.
• Never touch the electrical wiring of the ignition system.
• Avoid causing short circuits in the electrical system.

WARNING
Using unsuitable or repaired fuses and bridging an electrical circuit without fuses can
cause a fire and serious injuries.
• Never fit fuses that have a higher fuse protection limit. Fuses must always be replaced
by a new fuse with the same amp rating (same colour and markings) and size.
• Never repair a fuse.
• Never use a metal strip, paper clip or similar objects to replace a fuse.

NOTICE
• To avoid damage to the electrical system in the vehicle, switch the ignition, the lights
and all electrical consumers off and remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock
before changing a fuse.
• You can damage another position in the electrical system by using a fuse with a higher
amp rating.
• Fuse boxes must be protected from dirt and moisture when opened. Dirt and moisture
in the fuse boxes can damage the electrical system.

This chapter does not refer to all the fuses in the vehicle. These should be changed only by
a qualified workshop.

Fuses in the dash panel

Fig. 208 Dash panel on the driver side: fuse box cover.

Fig. 209 Fuse box cover in the dash panel: right-hand drive vehicle, on the front passenger side.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Left-hand drive: opening the fuse box in the dash panel
• Open the stowage compartment on the driver side ⇒ Fig. 208 .
• Empty stowage compartment if necessary.

• Push the retaining lugs ⇒ Fig. 208 ① upwards in the direction of the arrow whilst opening the
stowage compartment until the fuse carrier can be accessed.
• To install, press the stowage compartment into the mounts on the dash panel until it audibly
clicks into place on both sides and then close the compartment.

Right-hand drive: opening the fuse box in the dash panel
• Open the stowage compartment on the front passenger side and remove the contents if
necessary ⇒ Fig. 209 .
• Slide the braking element ⇒ Fig. 209 ① downwards into the opening in the holder and pull it
out sideways.
• Push catches ⇒ Fig. 209 ② upwards in the direction of the arrow whilst opening the stowage
compartment further.
• To install: bring storage compartment into position. Insert the brake element in the holder
opening and push upwards until it audibly engages. Carefully push the stowage compartment
forwards beyond the resistance of the catches ⇒ Fig. 209 ②.

NOTICE
• Remove the covers for the fuse boxes carefully and install them again properly so as to
avoid damage to the vehicle.
• Fuse boxes must be protected from dirt and moisture when opened. Dirt and moisture
in the fuse boxes can damage the electrical system.

Fuses in the engine compartment

Fig. 210 In the engine compartment: cover ① of fuse box with plastic pliers ②.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Opening the fuse box in the engine compartment
• Open the bonnet

⇒ In the engine compartment .

• Press the release buttons in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 210 ① to release the fuse box
cover.
• Lift off the cover.
• To install, position the cover on the fuse box and press it downwards until the cover audibly
clicks into place on both sides.
In some vehicles, there is a pair of plastic pliers ⇒ Fig. 210 ② for removing fuses on the inside of
the cover of the fuse box in the engine compartment.

NOTICE
• Remove the covers for the fuse boxes carefully and install them again properly so as to
avoid damage to the vehicle.
• Fuse boxes must be protected from dirt and moisture when opened. Dirt and moisture
in the fuse boxes can damage the electrical system.

Fuse table for fuses in the dash panel

Fig. 211 In the dash panel: fuse layout.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The table shows the fuse locations of the electrical equipment relevant for the driver. The first
column in the table contains the location. The other columns contain the fuse designs, the amp
rating and the consumer protected by the fuse.
Depending on the market and specification of your vehicle, the fuse numbers and positions may
differ to those given in the table. If necessary ask your Volkswagen dealership for the exact fuse
layout.

Fuse
location

Fuse
design

Amp
rating

Electrical consumers

⇒ Fig. 211
F4

MINI

F6

MINI

F7

MINI

F8

MINI

F10

MINI

F11

ATO

F12

ATO

F14

ATO

F16

MINI

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

ATO

JCASE

F24

ATO

F26

ATO

F27

ATO

F28

ATO

F38

ATO

F40

a)

ATO

F42

ATO

F44

ATO

F47

ATO

F51

ATO

F53

ATO

Selector mechanism for the automatic gearbox

10

®

F23

Anti-theft alarm.

10
10

®

F22

10

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

Control unit for air conditioning system or heating and
fresh air system, rear window heating relay
Light switch (dipped headlights), rain/light sensor,
electronic parking brake

7,5

Display, Infotainment controls

40

Exterior lights, left

20

Infotainment services

40

Blower control

7,5

Telephone

15

Charging cable for the trailer

30

Electric glass roof

40

Exterior lights, right

30

Seat heating

30

Interior lighting

25

Left trailer controller unit

25

Right trailer controller unit

20

Cigarette lighter, electrical socket

40

Central locking

15

Trailer controller unit

15

Rear wiper

25

Seat heating at rear

30

Rear window heating

The electric windows and the electrically adjustable seats may be secured with circuit
breakers which switch on again automatically a few seconds after the overload, e.g. frozen
windows, has been rectified.
a)

Observe the installation position. Factory-fitted fuse location as shown in illustration ⇒ Fig. 211 .

Fuse tables for fuses in the engine compartment

Fig. 212 Engine compartment: fuse layout.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The table shows the fuse locations of the electrical equipment relevant for the driver. The first
column in the table contains the location. The other columns contain the fuse designs, the amp
rating and the consumer protected by the fuse.

Fuse
location

Fuse
design

Amp
rating

Electrical consumers

⇒ Fig. 212
®

F6

ATO

F14

JCASE

F15

ATO

F19

ATO

F37

ATO

®

®

®

®

5

Brake light sensor

40

Windscreen heating

15

Horn

30

Windscreen wipers

20

Auxiliary heater

Depending on the version and specification of your vehicle, the fuse numbers and positions
may differ to those given in the table. If necessary, ask a qualified workshop for the exact fuse
layout. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership.

Changing a blown fuse

Fig. 213 Blown fuse: flat blade fuse, JCASE® fuse.

Fig. 214 Remove or insert fuse with plastic pliers: : flat blade fuse, : JCASE® fuse.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Fuse designs
®

• Standard flat blade fuse (ATO ).
®

• Small flat blade fuse (MINI ).
®

• JCASE fuse.

Colour coding of fuses
Colour

Amp rating in ampere (ATO
/ MINI)

Black

1

Amp rating in ampere
(JCASE)

Colour

Amp rating in ampere (ATO
/ MINI)

Amp rating in ampere
(JCASE)

Orange

5

Brown

7,5

Red

10

50

Blue

15

20

Yellow

20

60

White or clear

25

pink

30

30

Green

30

40

Light green

40

pink

30

30

Preparation
• Switch off the ignition, the lights and all electrical consumers.
• Open the appropriate fuse box ⇒ Fuses in the dash panel .

Detecting a blown fuse
• Shine a torch onto the fuse. This will help you to spot the blown fuse more easily.
®

®

• If a flat blade fuse (ATO , MINI ) has blown, this can be recognised from the top and side
through the transparent housing by the fact that the metal strip has melted ⇒ Fig. 213

.

®

• If a JCASE fuse is blown, the melted metal strip can be seen from the top through the
transparent housing ⇒ Fig. 213

.

Changing a fuse
• If applicable, take the plastic pliers ⇒ Fig. 214 ① out of the fuse box cover.
• Push the plastic pliers suitable to the fuse design ⇒ Fig. 214

① or ⇒ Fig. 214

① onto

the fuse from the side.
• Remove the fuse
• If the fuse has blown, replace it with a new fuse of the same amp rating (same colour and same
markings) and same size ⇒

.

• Once the new fuse is inserted, put the plastic pliers back in the cover.
• Fit the fuse box cover.

NOTICE
You can damage another position in the electrical system by using a fuse with a higher
amp rating.

Jump starting
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Jump lead connection point (earth connection)
⇒ Jump lead connection point (positive terminal)
⇒ Jump starting the vehicle
If the engine fails to start because the 12-volt vehicle battery is flat, the discharged battery can be
connected to the 12-volt battery of another vehicle to start the engine.
Suitable jump leads are needed for jump starting. The wire cross section must be at least 25 mm
2

for petrol engines and at least 35 mm for diesel engines.

2

WARNING
Using the jump leads incorrectly or completing the jump start procedure incorrectly can
cause the 12-volt vehicle battery to explode, which can lead to severe injuries. Please
observe the following in order to reduce the risk of the 12-volt vehicle battery exploding:
• All work on the 12-volt vehicle battery and the electrical system can cause serious
chemical burns, fire or electric shocks. Always read the warnings and safety
information before carrying out any kind of work on the 12-volt vehicle battery ⇒ 12volt vehicle battery .
• The vehicle battery providing assistance must have the same voltage as the flat vehicle
battery (12 volts) and approximately the same capacity (see label on battery).
• Never charge a 12-volt vehicle battery that is frozen or that has thawed. Discharged 12volt vehicle batteries can already freeze at temperatures of around 0°C (+32°F).
• The 12-volt vehicle battery should be replaced if it is frozen or has thawed.
• A highly explosive mixture of gases is given off when the 12-volt vehicle battery is
jump started. Always keep fire, sparks, naked flames and lit cigarettes away from the
12-volt vehicle battery. Never use a mobile telephone when the jump leads are being
connected or disconnected.
• Position the jump leads so that they never come into contact with any moving parts in
the engine compartment.
• Never confuse the negative and positive terminals or connect the jump leads
incorrectly.
• Observe the jump lead manufacturer's instructions.

NOTICE
Please note the following in order to avoid considerable damage to the vehicle electrical
system:
• A short circuit can be caused if the jump leads are wrongly connected.
• The vehicles must not touch each other, as any contact could mean that electricity
could flow as soon as the positive terminals are connected.

Jump lead connection point (earth connection)

Fig. 215 In the engine compartment: jump start connection point (earth connection).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
There is a jump lead connection point (earth connection) in the engine compartment for connecting
the black jump lead ⇒ Fig. 215㊀ .
The vehicle can be jump-started or be used to jump-start another vehicle only via this jump lead
connection point.

Jump lead connection point (positive terminal)

Fig. 216 In the engine compartment underneath a cover: jump lead connection point (positive
terminal).

First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
In vehicles with a 12-volt vehicle battery in the luggage compartment, there is a jump lead
connection point (positive terminal) ⇒ Fig. 216⊕ under a cover in the engine compartment for
connecting the red jump lead.
The vehicle can be jump-started or be used to jump-start another vehicle only via this jump lead
connection point.

Jump starting the vehicle

Fig. 217 Diagram for connecting the jump leads (12-volt vehicle battery in the engine
compartment).

Fig. 218 Diagram showing how to connect jump leads on the vehicle providing the jump start (12volt battery in luggage compartment).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key for ⇒ Fig. 217 and ⇒ Fig. 218 :
Vehicle with discharged 12-volt vehicle battery that is being jump-started.
Vehicle with 12-volt vehicle battery that is supplying power and jump-starting the other
vehicle.
Suitable earth connection: preferably the jump lead connection point (earth connection), a
solid metal part which is securely bolted onto the cylinder block, or the cylinder block itself.
The discharged 12-volt vehicle battery must be properly connected to the vehicle's electrical
system.
The vehicles must not touch. Otherwise electricity could flow as soon as the positive terminals are
connected.
Ensure that the battery clamps have good metal-to-metal contact with the battery terminals.
If the engine does not start immediately, switch off the starter after about 10 seconds and try again
after about a minute.
If the engine still does not start, seek expert assistance.

Connecting jump leads (vehicles with 12-volt battery in the engine
compartment)
The jump leads should only be connected in the order A – B – C – D⇒ Fig. 217 .
The black jump lead should never be connected to the negative terminal (–) on the 12-volt vehicle
battery. Connecting the lead to the negative terminal can cause incorrect condition evaluation of the
12-volt vehicle battery in the vehicle electronics.
• Switch off the ignition in both vehicles ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine .
• Open the cover on the 12-volt vehicle battery in the engine compartment, if a cover is installed

⇒ 12-volt vehicle battery .
• Connect one end of the red jump lead to the positive terminal (+) of the vehicle with the
discharged 12-volt vehicle battery ⇒ Fig. 217 ① ⇒

.

• Connect the other end of the red jump lead to the positive terminal (+) of the vehicle battery
providing assistance ⇒ Fig. 217 ②.
• On the vehicle with the flat 12-volt battery, connect the other end of the black jump lead

⇒ Fig. 217 ③ preferably to the jump lead connection point (earth connection), or otherwise to a
solid metal part that is securely bolted onto the cylinder block, or to the cylinder block itself ⇒
.
• Position the leads in such a way that they cannot come into contact with any moving parts in the
engine compartment.

Connecting jump leads (vehicles with 12-volt battery in the luggage
compartment)
The jump leads should only be connected in the order A – B – C – D⇒ Fig. 218 .
• Switch off the ignition in both vehicles ⇒ Starting and stopping the engine .
• Fold open the cover of the jump lead connection point in the engine compartment ⇒ Jump lead
connection point (positive terminal) .
• Connect one end of the red jump lead to the jump lead connection point (positive terminal) (+)
of the vehicle with the discharged 12-volt vehicle battery ⇒ Fig. 218 ① ⇒

.

• Connect the other end of the red jump lead to the positive terminal (+) of the vehicle battery
providing assistance ⇒ Fig. 218 ②.
• On the vehicle with the 12-volt battery providing assistance, connect one end of the black jump
lead ⇒ Fig. 218 ③ preferably to the jump lead connection point (earth connection), or
otherwise to a solid metal part that is securely bolted onto the cylinder block, or to the cylinder
block itself.
• On the vehicle with the flat 12-volt battery, connect the other end of the black jump lead

⇒ Fig. 218 ③ preferably to the jump lead connection point (earth connection), or otherwise to a
solid metal part that is securely bolted onto the cylinder block, or to the cylinder block itself ⇒
.
• Position the leads in such a way that they cannot come into contact with any moving parts in the
engine compartment.

Starting the engine
• Start the engine of the vehicle providing assistance and let it run at idle.
• Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged 12-volt vehicle battery and wait two or three
minutes until the engine is running smoothly.

Removing the jump leads
• Before disconnecting the jump leads, switch off the dipped beam headlights if they are switched
on.
• Turn on the blower of the air conditioning system or the heating and fresh air system and the
rear window heating in the vehicle with the discharged 12-volt vehicle battery. This helps to
minimise voltage peaks which are generated when the leads are disconnected.
• When the engine is running, the jump leads should be removed only in the order
D – C – B – A⇒ Fig. 217 or ⇒ Fig. 218 .
• Close the battery cover or fold back the cover of the jump lead connection point ⇒ Jump lead
connection point (positive terminal) .
• Go to a qualified workshop and have the 12-volt vehicle battery checked.

WARNING
Jump starting the vehicle incorrectly can cause the 12-volt vehicle battery to explode,
which can lead to serious injuries. Please observe the following in order to reduce the risk
of the 12-volt vehicle battery exploding:
• All work on the 12-volt vehicle battery and the electrical system can cause serious
chemical burns, fire or electric shocks. Always read the warnings and safety
information before carrying out any kind of work on the 12-volt vehicle battery ⇒ 12volt vehicle battery .
• Always wear suitable eye protection and gloves and never lean over the 12-volt vehicle
battery.
• Attach the connector cables in the correct order – the positive cable first, followed by
the negative.
• Never connect the negative cable to parts of the fuel system or to the brake lines.
• The non-insulated parts of the battery clamps must not be allowed to touch. The jump
lead attached to the positive terminal on the 12-volt vehicle battery must not touch
electrically conductive parts of the vehicle.

m/k/a995MK Vehicles with battery in the engine compartment: check the battery

•

window on the 12-volt vehicle battery. Use a torch for this if necessary. If the display is
light yellow or colourless, do not jump start the vehicle. Seek expert assistance.
• Avoid electrostatic discharge in the vicinity of the 12-volt vehicle battery. The explosive
gas emitted from the 12-volt vehicle battery could be ignited by sparks.
• Do not carry out jump starting if the 12-volt vehicle battery is damaged or if it is or has
ever been frozen.

NOTICE
Once the vehicle has been successfully jump-started, go to a qualified workshop and have
the 12-volt vehicle battery checked.

Tow-starting or towing
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Notes on tow-starting and towing
⇒ Fitting the rear towing eye
⇒ Fitting the front towing eye
⇒ Fitting the front towing eye (R-Line)
⇒ Driving notes when towing
Tow-starting is where a vehicle is started from it being set in motion by a vehicle that is hitched up
to it.
Towing is where a vehicle that cannot be driven is pulled away with the aid of another vehicle.
Observe any legal requirements when towing or tow-starting.
For technical reasons, vehicles with a discharged 12-volt battery must not be towed.⇒ Jump
starting
Vehicles with Keyless Access must only be towed with the ignition switched on.
Towing a vehicle when the engine is switched off and the ignition is switched on discharges the 12volt vehicle battery. Depending on the charge level of the 12-volt vehicle battery, the drop in voltage
can be large enough after just a few minutes that electrical consumers in the vehicle will no longer
function, e.g. the hazard warning lights.

WARNING
Never tow a vehicle that has no power supply.
• Never remove the vehicle key from the ignition or switch off the ignition using the
starter button during towing. This could cause the mechanical steering column lock
(steering lock) or the electronic steering column lock to engage suddenly. You will no
longer be able to steer the vehicle. This can lead to a loss of control of the vehicle,
accidents and serious injuries.
• If the power supply to the towed vehicle is disconnected, stop towing immediately and
seek expert assistance.

WARNING
If a vehicle is being towed, the vehicle handling and braking effect will change
significantly. Please note the following in order to reduce the risk of an accident or serious
injuries:
• Notes for the driver of the towed vehicle:
- You will need to depress the brake pedal more vigorously than normal as the
brake servo is not working. Always be careful not to drive into the vehicle that is
pulling your vehicle.
- You will need to turn the steering wheel more vigorously as the power-assisted
steering function is not working.

• Notes for the driver of the towing vehicle
- Accelerate carefully and gently.
- Avoid sudden braking and driving manoeuvres.
- Brake earlier than normal by pressing lightly on the brake pedal.

NOTICE
• Remove and install the cover and the towing eye carefully so as to avoid damage to the
vehicle, e.g. the paintwork.
• Unburnt fuel can enter the catalytic converter and damage it while the vehicle is being
towed.

Notes on tow-starting and towing
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Tow rope, tow bar
It is easier and safer to tow a vehicle with a tow bar. Only use a tow rope if you do not have a tow
bar.
The tow rope should be slightly elastic to reduce the strain on both vehicles. It is advisable to use a
tow rope made of synthetic fibre or similarly elastic material.
Only attach the tow rope or tow bar to the specially provided towing eyes or to the towing bracket.
Vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket must only use tow bars that are specially designed
to fit a ball head ⇒ Trailer towing .

Tow-starting
Vehicles should not be tow-started wherever possible. Instead have the vehicle jump-started

⇒ Jump starting or collected by a recovery vehicle.

However, if the vehicle still has to be tow-started:
• Engage second or third gear.
• Keep the clutch pressed down.
• Switch on the ignition and the hazard warning lights.
• Once both vehicles are in motion, release the clutch.
• As soon as the engine starts, press the clutch and put the gear into neutral. This helps to
prevent driving into the towing vehicle.

When should your vehicle not be towed?
• The vehicle gearbox is damaged or does not contain any lubricant.
• The 12-volt vehicle battery is discharged. The steering system is still locked and the electronic
parking brake and electronic steering column lock, if applied, cannot be released.
• The distance to be towed is further than 50 km.

• The steering function or the operating clearance of the wheels cannot be ensured after an
accident.

If your own vehicle has to be towed:
• Switch on the ignition.
®

• Select the neutral position or move the selector lever to N⇒ DSG dual clutch gearbox .
• Do not allow the vehicle to be towed at speeds faster than 50 km/h (30 mph).
• Do not allow the vehicle to be towed further than 50 km.
®

• Vehicles with a DSG dual clutch gearbox may only be towed by the breakdown truck with the
front wheels raised.

Towing vehicles with four-wheel drive (4MOTION)
Vehicles with four-wheel drive (4MOTION) may be towed with a tow bar or tow rope. If the vehicle
is towed with the rear or front axle raised, the engine must be switched off otherwise the drive train
could be damaged.

Please comply with the following when towing another vehicle:
• Comply with legal regulations.
• Comply with the information on towing contained in the owner's manual for the other vehicle.

NOTICE
When tow-starting, unburnt fuel can enter the catalytic converter and damage it.

NOTICE
When pushing the vehicle by hand, do not press on the tail light clusters, the side spoilers
on the rear window, the rear spoiler or large panels. This could damage the vehicle and
loosen the spoiler.

The vehicle can only be towed when the electronic parking brake is switched off and, if
applicable, when the electronic steering column lock is released. If the power supply fails or if there
are faults in the electrical system, you may need to use jump leads to start the engine to release the
electronic parking brake and the electronic steering column lock.

Fitting the rear towing eye

Fig. 219 On the right-hand side of the rear bumper: screwed-in towing eye.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The mount for the screw-in towing eye is located behind a cover ⇒ Fig. 219 ① on the right-hand
side of the rear bumper. In vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket there is no mount for the
screw-in towing eye behind the cover. To tow, swivel out or fit and use the ball head ⇒ Trailer
towing ⇒

.

Comply with the notes on towing ⇒ Notes on tow-starting and towing .

Fitting the rear towing eye
• Remove the towing eye from the vehicle tool kit in the luggage compartment ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .
• Press at the bottom of the cover ⇒ Fig. 219 ① (arrow) to release the cover fastener.
• Remove the cover and leave it hanging from the vehicle.
• Insert the lower locking lug in the opening in the bumper and push on the upper area of the
cover until the upper locking lug engages in the bumper.
• If necessary clean the towing eye and place them back in the vehicle tool kit in the luggage
compartment.

NOTICE
• The towing eye must always be screwed firmly into the mounting. Otherwise, the
towing eye can be ripped out of the mounting when the vehicle is being tow-started or
towed.
• Vehicles with a factory-fitted towing bracket must use only tow bars that are specially
designed for fitting to a ball head. If you use an unsuitable tow bar, the ball head and
the vehicle could be damaged. You should use a tow rope instead.

Fitting the front towing eye

Fig. 220 In the front bumper, right-hand side: towing eye.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The towing eye is screwed into a threaded hole behind a cover on the right of the front bumper

⇒ Fig. 220 .
The towing eye must always be kept in the vehicle.
Observe the notes on towing ⇒ Notes on tow-starting and towing .

Fitting the towing eye at front
• Remove the towing eye from the vehicle tool kit in the luggage compartment ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .
• Press the side of the cover ⇒ Fig. 220 ① (arrow) to release the cover fastener.
• Remove the cover and leave it hanging from the vehicle.
• Turn the towing eye ⇒ Fig. 220 ② as shown by the arrow into the threaded hole and tighten as
far as possible ⇒

. Use a suitable object to screw the towing eye fully and securely into the

mounting.
• After you have finished towing, remove the towing eye by unscrewing it in the opposite direction
to the arrow using a suitable object.
• Insert the outer tab of the cover into the opening in the bumper and push on the upper area of
the cover until the lug clicks into place in the bumper.
• If necessary clean the towing eye and place them back in the vehicle tool kit in the luggage
compartment.

NOTICE
The towing eye must always be screwed firmly into the mounting. Otherwise, the towing
eye can be ripped out of the mounting when the vehicle is being tow-started or towed.

Fitting the front towing eye (R-Line)

Fig. 221 In the right-hand side of the front bumper: cover for the towing eye mounting.

Fig. 222 Front bumper, right-hand side: screwing in the towing eye.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The towing eye is screwed into a threaded hole behind a cover on the right of the front bumper

⇒ Fig. 221 .
The towing eye must always be kept in the vehicle.
Observe the notes on towing ⇒ Notes on tow-starting and towing .

Fitting the towing eye at front
• Remove the towing eye from the vehicle tool kit in the luggage compartment.
• Push the area of the cover pointing towards the vehicle ⇒ Fig. 221 in the direction of the arrow
to release the cover fastener.
• Remove the cover and leave it hanging from the vehicle.
• Turn the towing eye anti-clockwise into the threaded hole and tighten as far as possible

⇒ Fig. 222 ⇒

. Use a suitable object to screw the towing eye fully and securely into the

mounting.
• After you have finished towing, remove the towing eye by unscrewing it with a suitable object
clockwise.
• Insert the lug on the cover on the opening pointing towards the vehicle side in the bumper and
push on the opposite area of the cover until the lug engages in the bumper.
• If necessary clean the towing eye and place them back in the vehicle tool kit in the luggage
compartment.

NOTICE
The towing eye must always be screwed firmly into the mounting. Otherwise, the towing
eye can be ripped out of the mounting when the vehicle is being tow-started or towed.

Driving notes when towing
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Towing requires some experience, especially when using a tow rope. Both drivers should be
familiar with the technique required for towing. Inexperienced drivers should not attempt to tow.
When driving, remember not to pull too hard on the towing vehicle and take care to avoid jerking
movements. When towing on an unpaved road, there is always a risk of overloading and damaging
the anchorage points.
It is still possible to activate the turn signals in a vehicle that is being towed, even if the hazard
warning lights are switched on. To do this, operate the turn signal lever in the required direction
while the ignition is switched on. The hazard warning lights will not flash while the turn signal is
being used. The hazard warning lights will start flashing automatically as soon as the turn signal
lever is moved back to the neutral position.

Notes for the driver of the towed vehicle:
• Leave the ignition of the vehicle being towed switched on to prevent the steering wheel from
locking, to enable the electronic parking brake to be switched off, and to ensure that the turn
signals, wipers and washer system can be used.
• As the power assisted steering does not work if the engine is not running, you will need more
strength to steer than you normally would.
• You will need to depress the brake pedal more vigorously than normal as the brake servo is not
working. Do not drive too close to the towing vehicle.
• Read and comply with the information and notes in the owner's manual of the towing vehicle.

Notes for the driver of the towing vehicle:
• Accelerate carefully and gently. Avoid any sudden driving manoeuvres.
• Brake earlier than normal by pressing lightly on the brake pedal.
• Read and comply with any information and notes in the owner's manual of the towed vehicle.

Checking and refilling
In the engine compartment

Safety notes for working in the engine compartment
Always park the vehicle on a level and stable surface before carrying out any work in the engine
compartment.
The engine compartment of a motor vehicle is a hazardous area. You should only carry out work on
the engine, and in the engine compartment, if you know exactly how to perform the required tasks,
are aware of the general safety procedures and have access to the correct equipment, service
fluids and suitable tools. Failing to carry out work correctly can cause serious injuries ⇒

. The

work should be carried out by a qualified workshop if you are uncertain. Volkswagen recommends
using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

WARNING
Unintentional vehicle movements during service work can cause serious injury.
• Never work underneath a vehicle if it is not secured against rolling away. If you are
working underneath the vehicle while the wheels are on the ground, the vehicle must
be on a level, the wheels chocked, and the vehicle key removed from the ignition lock
as required.
• If you have to work underneath the vehicle, use suitable stands to provide extra
support for the vehicle. The vehicle jack is not sufficient for this task and can fail,
which can lead to serious injuries.
• The start/stop system must have been deactivated.

WARNING
The engine compartment of any motor vehicle is a dangerous area. Serious injuries can be
sustained here.
• The utmost care and attention must be paid when carrying out any work and you must
follow the general safety rules. Never take any risks.
• Never do any work on the engine or in the engine compartment unless you know
exactly how to carry it out. If you are uncertain of what to do, the work should be
carried out by a qualified workshop. Serious injuries can result from work that has not
been carried out properly.
• Never open the bonnet if you see steam or coolant escaping from the engine
compartment. Hot steam or hot coolant can cause serious burns. Always wait until you
can no longer see or hear steam or coolant coming from the engine compartment.
• Always allow the engine to cool down before opening the bonnet.
• Hot parts of the engine or exhaust system can burn the skin.
• Observe the following points before opening the bonnet once the engine has cooled
down:
- Switch on the electronic parking brake and move the selector lever to position P
or move the gear lever to the neutral position.
- Switch off the ignition and remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock.
- Always keep children away from the engine compartment and never leave the
vehicle unattended.

• The cooling system is under pressure when the engine is hot. Never open the cap of
the coolant expansion tank when the engine is hot. Coolant may spray out and cause
serious burns and other injuries.
- Slowly and carefully turn the cap on the coolant expansion tank anticlockwise
while exerting gentle downward pressure on the cap.
- Always protect the face, hands and arms from hot coolant or steam with a large,
thick cloth.
• When refilling, do not spill any service fluids on engine components or on the exhaust
system. The spilt service fluids can start a fire.

WARNING
High voltages in the electrical system can cause electric shocks, burns, serious injuries
and death!
• Never short circuit the electric system. The 12-volt battery could explode.
• Please note the following guidelines to help reduce the risk of an electric shock and
serious injuries while the engine is running or being started:
- Never touch the electrical wiring of the ignition system.
- Never touch the electrical wiring and connections of gas discharge bulbs.

WARNING
There are rotating components in the engine compartment that can cause serious injury.
• Never place your hand near these components or in the radiator fan. Touching the
rotary blades can result in serious injuries. The fan is temperature-controlled and can
start automatically, even if the ignition has been switched off and the vehicle key has
been removed from the ignition lock.
• If any work has to be performed when the engine is started or with the engine running,
there is an additional, potentially fatal, safety risk from the rotating parts, such as the
poly V-belts, alternator, radiator fan etc., and from the high-voltage ignition system.
Always be particularly careful.
- Always ensure that no body parts, jewellery, ties, loose items of clothing or long
hair can be caught up in rotating engine components. Before starting work,
remove any jewellery and ties, tie up long hair and pull clothes in tightly to avoid
them getting caught in the engine compartment.
- Always take due care and attention when depressing the accelerator. The vehicle
could move, even if the electronic parking brake is applied.
• Always ensure you have not left any objects, such as cleaning cloths and tools, in the
engine compartment. Any forgotten items can cause malfunctions, engine damage and
fires.

WARNING
Additional insulating materials such as covers in the engine compartment could disrupt
the operation of the engine, start fires and lead to severe injuries.
• Never cover the engine with any insulating materials.

WARNING
Service fluids and some materials in the engine compartment are highly flammable and
can cause fires and serious injuries!
• Never smoke in the vicinity of the engine compartment.
• Never work near naked flames or sparks.
• Never spill fluids onto the engine. They could ignite on hot engine components and
hence cause injuries.
• Please note the following when carrying out any work on the fuel system or the
electrical system:
- Always disconnect the 12-volt vehicle battery. Ensure that the vehicle is
unlocked when the 12-volt vehicle battery is disconnected as otherwise the antitheft alarm will be activated.
- Never work in the direct proximity of heating systems, water heaters or any other
open flames.
• Always have a fully functional and tested fire extinguisher to hand.

NOTICE
When topping up or changing service fluids, ensure that you pour the correct service
fluids into the correct openings. The use of incorrect service fluids could result in serious
malfunctions and engine damage.

Service fluids leaks are harmful to the environment. So you should regularly check the
ground underneath your vehicle. If there are spots of oil or other service fluids on the ground, the
vehicle should be inspected by a qualified workshop. Any spilt service fluids must be disposed of
properly.

Preparing the vehicle for working in the engine compartment
Checklist
The following steps should always be carried out in the specified order before working in
the engine compartment ⇒

:

Park the vehicle on a level and stable surface.
Depress and hold the brake pedal until you have switched off the ignition.
Switch on the electronic parking brake Electronic parking brake.
Select the neutral position Manual gearbox: selecting a gear or move the selector lever to
position P DSG® dual clutch gearbox.
Switch off the ignition and remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock Starting and
stopping the engine.

Allow the engine to cool sufficiently.
Children and other people should be kept well away from the engine compartment.
Ensure that the vehicle cannot roll away unexpectedly.

WARNING
Ignoring any of the items on this important safety checklist can lead to severe injuries.
• Always follow the instructions in the checklist and observe the general safety
procedures.

Opening and closing the bonnet

Fig. 223 In the footwell on the driver's side: release lever for the bonnet.

Fig. 224 Above the radiator grille: bonnet control lever.

Opening the bonnet
• Ensure that the wiper arms are positioned on the windscreen before opening the bonnet ⇒

.

• Open the driver door and pull the release lever in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 223 . The
bonnet is released from its lock by a spring mechanism ⇒

.

• Lift the bonnet at the opening lever ⇒ Fig. 224 (arrow) and open fully. The bonnet is held in the
open position by the gas strut.

Closing the bonnet
• To close the bonnet, pull it down to overcome the gas strut pressure ⇒

.

• Let the bonnet drop into the catches from a height of about 30 cm – do not press it down!
If the bonnet has not closed properly, lift it and then close it again.
The bonnet sits flush with the body parts around it when it is closed properly. The bonnet is no
longer highlighted in the instrument cluster display ⇒ Display or the display goes out.

WARNING
If the bonnet is not closed properly, it can open suddenly while you are driving and
completely obscure your view of the road. This can lead to accidents and serious injuries.
• After closing the bonnet, always check that it is properly secured. The bonnet must be
flush with the surrounding body panels.
• If you notice that the bonnet is not closed properly while the vehicle is in motion, stop
the vehicle as soon as possible and close the bonnet.
• Therefore the bonnet should only be opened or closed when you are sure that nobody
is in its path.

NOTICE
• The bonnet should only be opened when the wiper arms are flush to the windscreen
and when they are switched off in order to avoid damage to the bonnet and the wiper
arms.
• Always return the wiper arms to the windscreen before starting your journey.

Display

Fig. 225 On the instrument cluster display: the bonnet is open or not closed properly (illustration).

A symbol in the instrument cluster display ⇒ Fig. 225 indicates if the bonnet is open or is not
closed properly.
Do not drive on! If necessary, lift the bonnet and then close it again.
This symbol is also visible when the ignition is switched off and will go out a few seconds after the
vehicle has been locked when all doors are closed.

WARNING
Failure to observe the warning displays could lead to your vehicle breaking down in
traffic, and to accidents and serious injuries.
• Never ignore any warning displays.
• Stop the vehicle as soon as it is possible and safe to do so.

The symbol can differ depending on the version of the instrument cluster.

Service fluids and consumables
All service fluids and consumables, e.g. tyres, engine coolant and vehicle batteries, are being
constantly developed. The same applies to toothed belts, engine oils and spark plugs for
combustion engines. For this reason, service fluids and consumables should be replaced at a
qualified workshop. Volkswagen dealerships are kept up to date on all innovations.

WARNING
Unsuitable service fluids and consumables, and the incorrect use of these fluids and
consumables, can cause accidents, serious injuries, burns or poisoning.
• Service fluids must be kept in their original sealed container.
• Never store service fluids in empty food containers, bottles or any other non-original
containers as people finding these containers could drink them.
• Keep children away from all service fluids and consumables.
• Always read and follow the information and warnings on the service fluid packaging.
• When using products that give off harmful fumes, always work outdoors or in a wellventilated area.
• Never use fuel, turpentine, engine oil, nail varnish remover or other volatile fluids for
vehicle care. They are toxic and highly flammable. They could cause fires and
explosions.

NOTICE
• Only use suitable service fluids for refilling. Never use the wrong service fluid. Failure
to observe this warning can result in serious malfunctions and engine damage.
• Optional equipment and other accessories in front of the air inlet reduce the cooling
effect of the coolant. The engine may overheat at high ambient temperatures and high
engine loads.

Leaking service fluids can pollute the environment. Spilt service fluids must be collected in
suitable containers and disposed of properly and with respect for the environment.

Washer fluid

Fig. 226 In the engine compartment: cap of washer fluid reservoir.

The windscreen washer fluid level should be checked regularly and topped up as necessary.
A filter can be found in the feed throat of the washer fluid reservoir. The filter keeps large dirt
particles away from the windscreen washer jets when refilling. The filter should only be removed for
cleaning. If the filter is damaged or is not present, dirt particles can enter the system and will block
the washer jets.
• Open the bonnet

⇒ In the engine compartment .

• The washer fluid reservoir is identified by the

symbol on the cap ⇒ Fig. 226 .

• Check whether there is enough windscreen washer fluid in the reservoir.
• To top up, mix clean water (not distilled water) with a washer fluid recommended by
Volkswagen ⇒

. Observe the dilution instructions on the packaging.

• At low temperatures, add a special anti-freeze agent so that the fluid cannot freeze ⇒

Capacities
The washer fluid reservoir has a capacity of between 3 and 5 litres depending on the vehicle
equipment level.

.

WARNING
Never mix coolant additive or other unsuitable additives into the windscreen washer fluid.
These may leave an oily film on the screen, restricting the field of vision.
• Use clean, clear water (not distilled water) with a washer fluid recommended by
Volkswagen.
• A suitable anti-freeze agent should be added to the windscreen washer fluid if
necessary.

NOTICE
• Never mix other cleaning agents with the cleaning agents recommended by
Volkswagen. This can cause the ingredients to separate and block the windscreen
washer jets.
• When topping up service fluids, please ensure that you pour the correct service fluids
into the correct openings. The use of incorrect service fluids could result in serious
malfunctions and engine damage.

Engine oil
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Engine oil specification
⇒ Changing the engine oil
⇒ Engine oil consumption
⇒ Checking the engine oil level and refilling the engine oil
⇒ Troubleshooting

WARNING
Incorrect handling of engine oil can cause serious burns and other injuries.
• Always wear eye protection when handling engine oil.
• Engine oil is toxic and must be stored out of the reach of children.
• Engine oil must be kept in the closed original container. This also applies to used oil
until it is disposed of.
• Never use empty food containers, bottles or other containers to store engine oil as
other people may then drink the engine oil.
• Regular contact with engine oil can damage the skin. Skin that has been in contact with
engine oil should be washed thoroughly with water and soap.
• Engine oil becomes extremely hot when the engine is running and can scald skin
severely. Always allow the engine to cool down.

Leaking or spilt engine oil can pollute the environment. Spilt service fluids must be collected
then disposed of properly and in an environmentally responsible way.

Engine oil specification
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The correct engine oil is important for the function and service life of the engine. A special high
quality multigrade oil has been filled at the factory and this can normally be used as an all-season
oil.
If possible, use only Volkswagen-approved engine oil ⇒

. To comply with flexible oil change

service requirements, refill only with approved flexible service engine oil that meets the
corresponding VW standard. The engine oils listed are multigrade high-lubricity oils.
Engine oils are constantly being developed and improved. Volkswagen dealerships are kept up to
date on all innovations. Volkswagen therefore recommends having engine oil changes done by a
Volkswagen dealership.
The quality of the engine oil is not only tailored to the requirements of engines and exhaust gas
treatment systems, but also to fuel quality. Due to the way in which a combustion engine works,
engine oil always comes into contact with combustion residues and fuel, which has a knock-on
effect on the ageing process of the oil.
The quality of fuels can vary greatly between individual markets and this must be taken into account
when selecting the correct engine oil.

The use of engine oils compliant with the VW 504 00, VW 507 00 and VW 508 00 specifications
requires a fuel quality compliant with EN 228 (petrol) and EN 590 (diesel), or fuel of an equivalent
quality. Engine oils compliant with VW 504 00, VW 507 00 and VW 508 00 are therefore
unsuitable for use in a large number of markets.
If the engine has been filled with engine oil in accordance with the standards W 502 00, VW 504 00
and VW 507 00, a sticker with the relevant information will be located on the lock carrier in the
engine compartment. Observe this information!

Permitted engine oil specifications ⇒

Engine type

Flexible
service QI6
(LongLife)

Fixed service QI1,
QI2, QI3, QI4, QI7
(based on
time/distance
travelled)

Only in the EU,
Switzerland,
Norway, Japana)
and Australia.

VW 502 00

VW 504 00

VW 507 00

VW 507 00

–

VW 507 00

VW 505 01

VW 507 00

VW 508 00
Petrol engines

Alternative engine
oil
specifications⇒

b)

Alternatively:
VW 504 00

c)

Diesel engines with
diesel particulate
filter

d)

Diesel engines
without diesel
particulate filter

d)

Volkswagen recommends

. Volkswagen recommends Volkswagen genuine engine
oils.

NOTICE
• Do not add any additional lubricants to the engine oil. Any damage caused by the use
of such additives is not covered by the warranty.
• Only those engine oil specifications that have been approved for use with the engine
should be used. Using other engine oils can cause engine damage.
• Another engine oil can be used in the event of an emergency if the listed engine oils are
not available. To avoid damaging the engine, a maximum quantity of 0.5 litres of the
following engine oil may be used only once until the next oil change:
- Petrol engines: standards ACEAA3/B4 or API SN (API SM).
- Diesel engines: standards ACEA C3 or API CJ-4.

a)

Alternative engine oil specifications may only be used in fixed services QI1, QI2, QI3, QI4 and

QI7, and only when fuel of a quality compliant with EN 228 (petrol) and EN 590 (diesel), or fuel of
an equivalent quality, is available in the particular country.
b)

c)

The engine oil VW 502 00 must be used if the fuel grade does not comply with EN 228.
Using VW 504 00 instead of VW 508 00 may cause the vehicle's emissions values to increase

slightly.
d)

You can also check with a qualified workshop if you are unsure whether your vehicle is equipped

with a diesel particulate filter. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this
purpose.

Changing the engine oil
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The engine oil must be changed on a regular basis. Always observe the service intervals applicable
for your vehicle ⇒ Service .
The engine oil and filter change should be carried out by a qualified workshop due to the special
tools and knowledge required, this also applies to the disposal of used oil. Volkswagen
recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.
Please read the notes on the service intervals ⇒ Service .
Additives in the engine oil can cause new engine oil to discolour quickly. This is normal and does
not mean that the engine oil should be changed more frequently.

WARNING
If, in exceptional cases, you have to carry out an oil change yourself, please note the
following:
• Always wear eye protection.
• Always allow the engine to cool down completely to avoid burns.
• Avoid raising your arms when removing the oil drain plug with your fingers to help
prevent oil from running down your arm.
• Use a suitable container when draining the used oil. It must be at least large enough to
hold the entire quantity of engine oil required for refilling.
• Never store engine oil in empty food containers, bottles or any other non-original
containers as people finding these containers may not know that they contain engine
oil.
• Engine oil is toxic and must be stored out of the reach of children.

Before changing the engine oil, first find out where old oil can be disposed of properly near
you.
Used oil must be disposed of in accordance with regulations governing the protection of the
environment. Never dispose of old oil in locations such as gardens, woods, sewerage systems, on
streets and roads, or in rivers and waterways.

Engine oil consumption
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Engine oil consumption can vary from engine to engine and can change during the working life of
an engine.
The vehicle may consume up to 1.0 litre of engine oil per 2,000 km, depending on how you drive
and the conditions in which the car is used. In new vehicles, consumption is likely to be higher for
the first 5,000 km. The engine oil level must therefore be checked at regular intervals, preferably
when refuelling and before long journeys.
When the engine is working hard, the engine oil level should be kept within the upper permissible
area ⇒ Fig. 227Ⓒ , for instance during extended motorway journeys in summer, when towing a
trailer ⇒ Trailer towing , or when climbing mountain passes.

Checking the engine oil level and refilling the engine oil

Fig. 227 Engine oil level markings on the oil dipstick.

Fig. 228 In the engine compartment: engine oil filler cap (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 227 :
Engine oil level too high – follow the messages in the instrument cluster display or contact
a qualified workshop, if necessary.

Do not refill engine oil.
Engine oil level OK.
Engine oil level too low – refill engine oil.

Checklist
Carry out the steps in the specified order ⇒

:

With the engine at operating temperature, park the vehicle on a level surface to ensure
that the engine oil reading is correct.
Switch off the engine and wait a few minutes for the engine oil to flow back into the sump.
Open the bonnet In the engine compartment.
Identify the engine oil filler cap and oil dipstick. The engine oil filler opening bears the
symbol on the cap and the oil dipstick has a coloured handle. If you cannot find the cap
and dipstick please contact a qualified workshop.
Pull the dipstick out of the guide tube and wipe it off with a clean cloth.
Insert the oil dipstick into the guide tube again as far as it will go. If there is a marking on
the upper end of the oil dipstick, this marking must fit in the corresponding groove at the
top end of the guide tube when inserting.
Pull the dipstick out again and read the engine oil level on the dipstick as follows: Ⓐ Engine
oil level too high. Follow any messages that are shown on the instrument cluster display and
go to a qualified workshop . Ⓑ Do not fill the engine oil . Continue to step 16. Ⓒ Engine oil
level OK. Engine oil can, e.g. in the case of high engine loads , be filled up to the upper limit
of this range. Continue to step 8 or 16. Ⓓ Engine oil level is too low. The engine oil must be
refilled. Continue to step 8.
After reading off the oil level, push the oil dipstick back into the guide tube as far as it will
go.
Unscrew the engine oil filler opening cap .
Only the engine oil expressly approved by Volkswagen for this engine should be gradually
refilled in small quantities (no more than 0.5 l).
In order to avoid overfilling, wait for approximately one minute after each refill step to allow
the engine oil to flow into the oil sump up to the marking on the engine oil dipstick.
Read the engine oil level from the dipstick again before refilling with a further small
quantity of engine oil. Never overfill with engine oil .
After refilling, the engine oil level should be in the middle of area Ⓒ. It should not be above
Ⓒ, in area Ⓑ, and must not reach area Ⓐ .
If too much engine oil has been added unintentionally and the engine oil level is in area Ⓐ,
do not start the engine. Inform a qualified workshop and possibly seek expert assistance.
After refilling, close the engine oil filler opening with the cap.
Insert the oil dipstick into the guide tube as far as it will go. If there is a marking on the
upper end of the oil dipstick, this marking must fit in the corresponding groove at the top
end of the guide tube when inserting.
Close the bonnet In the engine compartment.

WARNING
Engine oil can ignite if it comes into contact with hot engine components. It can cause
fires, burns and other serious injuries.
• If engine oil is spilt on cold engine parts it can heat up and ignite when the engine is
running.
• Always ensure that the engine oil filler cap is securely tightened after refilling, and that
the dipstick is properly inserted back into the guide tube. This will prevent the engine
oil from draining out on to hot engine components when the engine is running.

NOTICE
• If too much engine oil has been added unintentionally and the engine oil level is in area

⇒ Fig. 227Ⓐ , do not start the engine. Inform a qualified workshop and possibly seek
expert assistance. The catalytic converter and the engine could otherwise be damaged.
• When topping up service fluids, please ensure that you pour the correct service fluids
into the correct openings. The use of incorrect service fluids could result in serious
malfunctions and engine damage.

The engine oil level must never be above area ⇒ Fig. 227Ⓑ . Otherwise oil can be drawn in
through the crankcase breather and escape into the atmosphere via the exhaust system.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Warning lamps and text messages may be shown in the instrument cluster display. These warnings
may also be accompanied by acoustic signals.

Engine oil
Lit up: engine oil level too low. Switch off the engine. Check the engine oil level ⇒ Checking
the engine oil level and refilling the engine oil .

Flashing: engine oil system fault. Go to a

qualified workshop and have the engine oil sensor checked.
is too low.

Flashing: engine oil pressure

Do not drive on!

Switch off the engine and check the engine oil level ⇒ Checking the engine oil level and refilling the
engine oil - Do not drive on or remain at idling speed if the warning lamp is flashing even if the
engine oil level is correct. The engine could otherwise be damaged. You should obtain professional
assistance.

Engine coolant
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Coolant specification
⇒ Checking the coolant level and refilling coolant
You should only carry out work on the cooling system if you know exactly how to perform the
required tasks, are aware of the general safety procedures and have access to the correct
equipment, service fluids and suitable tools. Failing to carry out work correctly can cause serious
injuries ⇒

. The work should be carried out by a qualified workshop if you are uncertain.

Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

WARNING
Engine coolant is toxic.
• Engine coolant should only be kept in sealed original containers in a safe place.
• Never store engine coolant in empty food containers, bottles or any other non-original
containers as people finding these containers may then drink the engine coolant.
• The engine coolant must be stored out of the reach of children.
• Please note that the amount of correct coolant additive used must be sufficient for the
lowest ambient temperature that you expect the vehicle to be exposed to.
• Coolant can freeze at extremely cold outside temperatures, causing the vehicle to
break down. Vehicle occupants with inadequate winter clothing could then freeze to
death as the heating will also no longer function.

Coolant and coolant additives can pollute the environment. Spilt service fluids must be
collected then disposed of properly and in an environmentally responsible way.

Coolant specification
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The cooling system is filled at the factory with a mixture of specially prepared water and at least
40% coolant additive G 13 (TL-VW 774 J). The coolant additive is dyed purple. This mixture of
water and coolant additive gives the necessary frost protection down to -25°C (-13°F) and protects
the alloy parts of the cooling system against corrosion. The mixture also prevents scaling and
raises the boiling point of the coolant.
In order to protect the coolant system, the proportion of coolant additive must always be at least
40%, even if anti-freeze is not required in warm weather and warm climates.
If greater frost protection is required in very cold climates, the proportion of anti-freeze additive can
be increased. However, the percentage of coolant additive should not exceed 60%, as this would
reduce the frost protection and the cooling effect.
When refilling the coolant, a mixture of distilled water and at least 40% coolant additive - G 13 - or
- G 12 plus-plus - (TL-VW 774 G) (both of which are dyed purple) must be used in order to obtain
the optimum corrosion protection ⇒

. Mixing - G 13 - with the coolant additives - G 12 plus - (TL-

VW 774 F), - G 12 - (dyed red) or - G 11 - (dyed blue-green) will significantly decrease the level of
corrosion protection and should therefore be avoided ⇒

.

WARNING
Insufficient anti-freeze in the coolant system can cause the engine to break down and
cause serious injuries.
• Please note that the amount of correct coolant additive used must be sufficient for the
lowest ambient temperature that you expect the vehicle to be exposed to.
• Coolant can freeze at extremely cold outside temperatures, causing the vehicle to
break down. Vehicle occupants with inadequate winter clothing could then freeze to
death as the heating will also no longer function.

NOTICE
Never mix genuine coolant additives with other coolants that have not been approved by
Volkswagen. Mixing other coolants could cause serious damage to the engine and cooling
system.
• If the liquid in the coolant expansion tank is not pink (colouring results from mixing the
purple coolant additive with distilled water) but for example, brown instead, - G 13 - has
been mixed with an unsuitable coolant. The coolant must be changed as soon as
possible if this is the case. Failure to observe this point can result in serious faults or
engine damage.

Coolant and coolant additives can pollute the environment. Spilt service fluids must be
collected then disposed of properly and in an environmentally responsible way.

Checking the coolant level and refilling coolant

Fig. 229 In the engine compartment: markings on the coolant expansion tank.

Fig. 230 In the engine compartment: coolant expansion tank cap (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The warning lamp for the engine coolant will light up if the engine coolant level is too low.

Preparation
• Park the vehicle on a firm and level surface.
• Allow the engine to cool down ⇒
• Open the bonnet

.

⇒ In the engine compartment .

• The coolant expansion tank is identified by the

symbol on the cap ⇒ Fig. 230 .

Checking the coolant level
• When the engine is cold, check the coolant level on the side markings of the engine coolant
expansion tank ⇒ Fig. 229 . The engine coolant level must be between the marks.
• Refill coolant if the liquid level in the coolant expansion tank is below the minimum marking
(min). When the engine is warm, the engine coolant level may be slightly above the maximum
(MAX) mark.

Refilling coolant
• Always protect your face, hands and arms from hot coolant or steam by placing a suitable cloth
on the cap of the coolant expansion tank.
• Unscrew the cap carefully ⇒

.

• Refill only new coolant according to the Volkswagen specification ⇒ Coolant specification ⇒
.

• Only top up coolant if there is coolant residue in the expansion tank. If this is not observed, the
engine could be damaged. If you cannot see any coolant in the expansion tank do not drive
on. Seek professional assistance.
• If you can see coolant residue in the coolant expansion tank, refill coolant until the level remains
stable.
• The coolant level must be between the marks on the coolant expansion tank ⇒ Fig. 229 . Do
not fill above the top edge of the marked area⇒

.

• Close the cap tightly.
• If in an emergency you do not have access to the required specification ⇒ Coolant
specification , do not use any other coolant additive! Instead, initially refill with distilled water⇒
only. Then add the correct proportion of coolant additive as soon as possible ⇒ Coolant
specification .

WARNING
Hot steam or coolant can cause serious burns.
• Never open the bonnet if you can see or hear steam or engine coolant coming out of
the engine compartment. Always wait until you can no longer see or hear escaping
steam or coolant.
• Always allow the engine to cool down completely before carefully opening the bonnet.
Hot components can burn the skin.
• The following points should be noted before opening the bonnet once the engine has
cooled down:
- Switch on the electronic parking brake and move the selector lever to position P
or move the gear lever to the neutral position.
- Switch off the ignition and remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock.
- Always keep children away from the engine compartment and never leave the
vehicle unattended.

• The cooling system is under pressure when the engine is hot. Never open the cap of
the coolant expansion tank when the engine is hot. Coolant may spray out and cause
serious burns and other injuries.
- Turn the cap slowly and very carefully anti-clockwise while exerting gentle
downward pressure on the cap.
- Always protect the face, hands and arms from hot coolant or steam with a large,
thick cloth.
• When refilling, do not spill any service fluids on engine components or on the exhaust
system. The spilt service fluids can start a fire. In certain circumstances, the ethylene
glycol in the engine can catch fire.

NOTICE
• Refill only with distilled water. All other types of water can cause corrosion in the
engine due to the chemical components contained therein. This can also lead to engine
failure. If any other type of water than distilled water is refilled, the fluid in the cooling
system should be completely replaced immediately by a qualified workshop.
• Do not fill coolant above the top of the marked area ⇒ Fig. 229 . Otherwise the excess
coolant will be pressed out of the cooling system when the engine is hot and could
cause damage.
• If a large amount of coolant has been lost, do not refill the coolant until the engine has
cooled completely. Heavy coolant loss is an indication of leaks in the engine cooling
system. The engine cooling system should be checked by a qualified workshop as
soon as possible. Failure to do so can result in engine damage.
• Do not top up with coolant if there is no more coolant in the coolant expansion tank. Air
could have entered the cooling system. Do not drive on! Seek expert assistance. Failure
to do so can result in engine damage.
• When topping up service fluids, please ensure that you pour the correct service fluids
into the correct openings. The use of incorrect service fluids could result in serious
malfunctions and engine damage.

Brake fluid

Fig. 231 In the engine compartment: cap on the brake fluid container.

Brake fluid will gradually absorb water from the surrounding air. The brake system will be damaged
if there is too much water in the brake fluid. The boiling point of the brake fluid is also considerably
reduced by the water content. Heavy use of the brakes may cause a vapour lock in the brake
system if the water content is too high. Vapour locks reduce levels of braking power, considerably
increase braking distance and can even cause the brake system to fail completely. Your own safety
and that of other road users depends on having a brake system that functions properly at all times

⇒

.

Brake fluid specification
Volkswagen has developed a brake fluid that has been optimised for the brake system in the
vehicle. To ensure optimal operation of the brake system, Volkswagen expressly recommends the
use of brake fluid compliant with VW standard 501 14.
Before using a particular brake fluid, check that the specifications printed on the container
correspond to the vehicle requirements.
Brake fluid that is compliant with VW standard 501 14 is available from Volkswagen dealerships.
If this brake fluid is not available and it is necessary to use another high-quality brake fluid instead,
brake fluid that is compliant with DIN ISO 4925 CLASS 4 or US standard FMVSS 116 DOT 4 can
be used.
Not all brake fluids that are compliant with DIN ISO 4925 CLASS 4 or US standard FMVSS 116
DOT 4 have the same chemical composition. Some of these brake fluids may contain chemicals
that can damage or destroy brake system components over time.
Volkswagen therefore recommends the use of brake fluid that is compliant with
VW standard 501 14 to ensure sustained optimal operation of the brake system.
Brake fluid that is compliant with VW standard 501 14 fulfils the requirements of DIN ISO 4925
CLASS 4 or US standard FMVSS 116 DOT 4.

Brake fluid level
Brake fluid level is too low.

Do not drive on! Check the brake fluid level.

The brake fluid level must always be between the MIN and MAX marking on the brake fluid
reservoir or above the MIN marking ⇒

.

The brake fluid level cannot be checked accurately in all models as engine components may
partially conceal the brake fluid container. If the brake fluid level cannot be read exactly, please go
to a qualified workshop.
The brake fluid level drops slightly when the vehicle is being used as the brake pads wear and the
brakes are automatically adjusted.

Changing the brake fluid
The brake fluid should be changed by a qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a
Volkswagen dealership for this purpose. Only brake fluid that conforms with the required
specification should be used.

WARNING
Brake failure or reduced braking effect can be caused by the brake fluid level being too
low or by brake fluid that is too old or unsuitable.
• The brake system and brake fluid level must be checked regularly.
• The brake fluid should be changed regularly.
• Heavy use of the brakes may cause a vapour lock if the brake fluid is left in the system
for too long. Vapour locks reduce levels of braking power, considerably increase
braking distance and can cause the brake system to fail completely.
• Please ensure that the correct brake fluid is used. Only use brake fluid that is explicitly
compliant with VW standard 501 14.
• Any other brake fluid or a low-quality one can affect the functioning of the brakes and
reduce their effectiveness.
• If a brake fluid compliant with VW standard 501 14 is not available, use a high-quality
brake fluid compliant with DIN ISO 4925 CLASS 4 or the US standard FMVSS 116 DOT
4, but only in exceptional circumstances.
• The refilled brake fluid must be new.

WARNING
Brake fluid is toxic.
• In order to reduce the risk of poisoning, never use bottles or other containers to store
brake fluid. There is always a risk of someone drinking from such containers, even if
they are labelled appropriately.
• Brake fluid must always be stored in its original sealed container and kept out of the
reach of children.

NOTICE
Brake fluid that has leaked or been spilt can damage the vehicle paintwork, plastic parts
and tyres. Wipe off brake fluid that has leaked or been spilled immediately from all parts of
the vehicle.

Brake fluid can pollute the environment. Any spilt service fluids must be cleaned up and
disposed of properly.

12-volt vehicle battery
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Checking the electrolyte level of the 12-volt vehicle battery
⇒ Charging, replacing, disconnecting and connecting the 12-volt vehicle battery
⇒ Troubleshooting
The 12-volt vehicle battery is a component of the electrical system and serves to supply power in
the vehicle.
You should only carry out work on the electrical system if you know exactly how to perform the
required tasks, are aware of the general safety procedures and have access to the correct
equipment, service fluids and suitable tools. Failing to carry out work correctly can cause serious
injuries ⇒

. All work should be carried out by a qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends

using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Location of the 12-volt vehicle battery
Depending on the vehicle equipment level, the 12-volt vehicle battery may be located in the engine
compartment or in the luggage compartment under the luggage compartment floor.

Explanation of the warnings on the 12-volt vehicle battery
m/k/n948MK Always wear eye protection!

m/k/n947MK Electrolyte is very corrosive

and caustic. Always wear protective gloves and eye protection!
sparks, naked lights or smoking!

m/k/n944MK No fires,

m/k/n946MK A highly explosive mixture of gases is given

off when the 12-volt vehicle battery is charging!

m/k/n945MK Always keep children away

from battery acid and the 12-volt vehicle battery!

m/k/n949MK Always observe the owner's

manual!

WARNING
Any work on the 12-volt vehicle battery and the electrical system can cause serious
chemical burns, fire or electric shocks. Always read the following warnings and safety
information before carrying out any kind of work:
• Switch off the ignition and all electrical consumers before carrying out any work on the
12-volt vehicle battery and also disconnect the negative cable from the 12-volt vehicle
battery.
• Children should always be kept away from electrolyte and the 12-volt vehicle battery.
• Always wear eye protection and protective gloves.
• Electrolyte is very aggressive. It can burn the skin and can cause blindness. When
working with the 12-volt vehicle battery, ensure that your hands, arms and face in
particular are protected from acid spillages.
• Do not smoke during the work, and never work near naked flames or sparks.
• When handling cables and electrical equipment, avoid generating sparks and
electrostatic charge.
• Never short circuit the battery poles.
• Never use a damaged 12-volt vehicle battery. It can explode. Damaged 12-volt vehicle
batteries must be replaced as soon as possible.
• Damaged or frozen 12-volt vehicle batteries must be replaced as soon as possible.
Discharged 12-volt vehicle batteries can already freeze at temperatures of around
0°C (+32°F).
• In vehicles with the 12-volt vehicle battery in the luggage compartment, ensure that the
breather hose is connected properly to the 12-volt vehicle battery.

NOTICE
• Do not expose the 12-volt vehicle battery to direct daylight for an extended period as
the UV rays could damage the battery housing.
• If the vehicle is left standing in cold conditions for a long period, protect the 12-volt
vehicle battery from frost. If it freezes, it will be destroyed.

When you start the engine after the 12-volt battery has been totally discharged or after a
successful jump start, you may find that system settings (time, date, personal convenience settings
and programming) have been changed or deleted. Check and correct the settings as necessary
once the 12-volt vehicle battery has been sufficiently charged.

Checking the electrolyte level of the 12-volt vehicle battery

Fig. 232 In the engine compartment: folding open the 12-volt vehicle battery cover.

Fig. 233 Battery window on the top of the 12-volt vehicle battery (illustration).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The electrolyte level of the 12-volt vehicle battery should be checked regularly in high-mileage
vehicles, in hot countries and in older 12-volt vehicle batteries. The 12-volt vehicle battery is
otherwise maintenance-free.

Vehicles with auxiliary heater ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation and vehicles with the 12-volt
battery in the luggage compartment are fitted with special batteries. The acid level of these 12-volt
vehicle batteries cannot be checked for technical reasons. Go to a qualified workshop to have the
12-volt vehicle battery checked.

Preparation (vehicles with 12-volt battery in the engine compartment)
• Preparing the vehicle for working in the engine compartment ⇒ In the engine compartment .
• Open the bonnet

⇒ In the engine compartment .

Opening the cover of the 12-volt vehicle battery
To open, fold the cover open in the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 232 .
To close, fold the cover against the direction of the arrow ⇒ Fig. 232 .

Checking the electrolyte level (12-volt vehicle batteries with battery
window)
• Ensure that enough light is available for you to clearly see the colours in the round window on
the top of the 12-volt vehicle battery ⇒ Fig. 233 (arrow). Never use naked flames or glowing
matter (e.g. cigarettes) as a light source.
• The colour displayed in the round viewer changes according to the electrolyte level in the
battery.
Light yellow or without colourThe electrolyte level of the 12-volt vehicle battery is too low. The 12volt vehicle battery should be checked by a qualified workshop and replaced if necessary.BlackThe
electrolyte level of the 12-volt vehicle battery is correct.

WARNING
Any work on the 12-volt vehicle battery can cause serious chemical burns, explosions and
electric shocks.
• Always wear eye protection and protective gloves.
• Electrolyte is very aggressive. It can burn the skin and can cause blindness. When
working with the 12-volt vehicle battery, ensure that your hands, arms and face in
particular are protected from acid spillages.
• Never tilt the 12-volt vehicle battery. Electrolyte may spill out of the battery vents and
cause chemical burns.
• Never open a 12-volt vehicle battery.
• If acid is spilt in your eye or on your skin, rinse immediately for several minutes with
cold water. Then consult a doctor immediately.
• If acid is swallowed, consult a doctor immediately.

Charging, replacing, disconnecting and connecting the 12-volt
vehicle battery
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
If you suspect that the 12-volt vehicle battery is damaged or faulty, go to a qualified workshop and
have the 12-volt vehicle battery checked.

Charging the 12-volt vehicle battery
The 12-volt vehicle battery should be charged by a qualified workshop, as the technology used in
factory-fitted 12-volt vehicle batteries requires voltage-limited charging ⇒

. Volkswagen

recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Replacing the 12-volt vehicle battery
The 12-volt vehicle battery has been developed to suit the conditions of its location and has special
safety features. If a 12-volt vehicle battery has to be replaced, discuss the electromagnetic
compatibility, size and necessary maintenance, performance and safety requirements for the new
12-volt vehicle battery with a Volkswagen dealership before purchase.
Only maintenance-free 12-volt vehicle batteries compliant with the standards TL 825 06 and
VW 7 50 73 should be used. These standards must be dated July 2012 or later.
In vehicles with a start/stop system or vehicles with an auxiliary heater ⇒ Auxiliary heater and
ventilation , always have the 12-volt vehicle battery replaced by a qualified workshop, as the vehicle
electronics must be adapted as part of the replacement process. Only qualified workshops have the
technology required to carry out this adjustment correctly. Volkswagen recommends using a
Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Disconnecting the 12-volt vehicle battery
Please note the following if the 12-volt vehicle battery has to be disconnected from the electrical
system in the vehicle:

• Switch off all electrical consumers and the ignition.
• Unlock the vehicle before disconnecting the battery in order to avoid triggering the anti-theft
alarm.
• First disconnect the negative cable and then the positive cable ⇒

.

Connecting the 12-volt vehicle battery
• Switch off all electrical consumers and the ignition before reconnecting the 12-volt vehicle
battery.
• First reconnect the positive cable and then the negative cable ⇒

.

Various indicator lamps may light up after the 12-volt vehicle battery has been connected and the
ignition is switched on. They will go out if you drive a short distance at a speed of approximately
15 – 20 km/h (10 – 12 mph). If the indicator lamps remain lit up, the vehicle should be checked by a
qualified workshop.
If the 12-volt vehicle battery was disconnected for an extended period, the system may not able to
calculate or correctly display the time when the next service is due ⇒ Instrument cluster . Observe
the maximum permissible service intervals ⇒ Service .
Vehicles with Keyless Access:⇒ Central locking system : if the ignition cannot be switched on after
connecting the 12-volt vehicle battery, lock and unlock the vehicle from the outside. Then try to start
the ignition again. Please contact an expert if the ignition cannot be switched on.

Automatic switch-off for electrical consumers
The intelligent vehicle electrical system management automatically implements a range of
measures to prevent the 12-volt battery from discharging under high loads:
• The idling speed is increased so that the alternator provides more electricity.
• The performance of large electrical consumers may be reduced or they may be switched off
completely.
• The power supply to the 12-volt socket and the cigarette lighter is interrupted temporarily while
the engine is being started.
The vehicle electrical system management function cannot always prevent the 12-volt vehicle
battery from discharging. For example when the ignition is switched on for an extended period with
the engine off, or when the side or parking lights are on when the vehicle is parked for an extended
period.

Battery switch-off in an accident in which the airbag is triggered
In vehicles with 12-volt vehicle battery in the luggage compartment, the electrical connection to the
12-volt vehicle battery is disconnected pyrotechnically in the event of an accident in which the
airbags are triggered. This prevents short-circuiting.

What can cause the 12-volt vehicle battery to discharge?
• Long periods at a standstill in which the engine is not running, especially if the ignition is
switched on.
• The use of electrical consumers when the engine is switched off.
• When the auxiliary heater is being used ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation .

WARNING
Incorrectly securing the battery and using incorrect 12-volt vehicle batteries can cause
short circuits, fire and serious injuries.
• Always use maintenance-free and leak-proof 12-volt vehicle batteries that have the
same properties, specifications and dimensions as the factory-fitted 12-volt vehicle
battery.
• In vehicles with the 12-volt vehicle battery in the luggage compartment, ensure that the
breather hose is connected properly to the 12-volt vehicle battery. Make sure that no
open gas discharge openings are located in the area around the positive battery
terminal. If there is an open breather opening in this area, it must be closed off with a
sealing plug. The breather hose must be connected to the open breather opening in the
area of the negative terminal.

WARNING
A highly explosive mixture of gases is given off when the 12-volt vehicle battery is being
charged.
• 12-volt vehicle batteries should only be charged in well-ventilated spaces.
• Never charge a 12-volt vehicle battery that is frozen or that has thawed. Discharged 12volt vehicle batteries can already freeze at temperatures of around 0°C (+32°F).
• The 12-volt vehicle battery must be replaced if it has ever been frozen.
• Incorrectly connected cables can cause a short circuit. First connect the positive cable
and then the negative cable.

NOTICE
• Never connect or disconnect 12-volt vehicle batteries if the ignition is switched on or
the engine is running. Never use a 12-volt vehicle battery that does not correspond with
the vehicle's specifications. This can damage the electrical system or electronic
components, which can cause electrical faults.
• Never connect equipment that supplies electric power, such as solar panels or a
battery charger, to the 12-volt socket or to the cigarette lighter to charge the 12-volt
vehicle battery. This can damage the vehicle electrical system.

Dispose of the 12-volt vehicle battery in accordance with the regulations. 12-volt vehicle
batteries may contain toxic substances such as sulphuric acid and lead.
Electrolyte can pollute the environment. Clean up any service fluid leakages and dispose of
them properly.

Troubleshooting
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

12-volt vehicle battery
Fault in the alternator. Go to a qualified workshop. Have the electrical system checked. Switch
off any electrical consumers that are not required. The 12-volt vehicle battery will not be charged by
the alternator while the vehicle is in motion. The start/stop system cannot start the engine.

⇒ Start/stop system

Wheels and tyres
Tyre monitoring systems
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Types of tyre monitoring systems
⇒ Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
⇒ Tyre Pressure Monitoring System
⇒ Troubleshooting for the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
⇒ Troubleshooting for the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System

The tyre monitoring system warns the
driver when the tyre pressures get too
low.

WARNING
The intelligent tyre monitoring system technology cannot overcome the laws of physics,
and functions only within the limits of the system. Incorrect handling of the wheels and
tyres can lead to a sudden loss of pressure in the tyres, tread separation and even tyre
blow-out.
• Check tyre pressures regularly and always maintain the specified tyre pressure value

⇒ Tyre pressure . If the tyre pressure is too low, it is possible that the tyre temperature
will increase to such an extent that the tread peels off and the tyre bursts.
• Always maintain the correct cold tyre pressure as specified on the sticker ⇒ Tyre
pressure .
• Check the tyre pressure regularly when the tyres are cold. If necessary, adjust the tyre
pressure in the cold tyre to the recommended tyre pressure for the tyres installed on
your vehicle ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• Check your tyres regularly for signs of wear or damage.
• Never exceed the top speed and load permitted for the fitted tyres.

If the tyre pressure is too low, this will increase fuel consumption and tyre wear.

When new tyres are driven at high speeds for the first time, they can expand slightly and
trigger a one-off pressure warning.
Old tyres should only be replaced by tyres that have been approved by Volkswagen for the
vehicle type.
Do not rely solely on the tyre monitoring system. Check your tyres regularly to ensure that
they are properly inflated and have no signs of damage, such as punctures, cuts, cracks, and
blisters. Remove any objects that become embedded in the tyre tread but have not penetrated into
the body of the tyre itself.

Types of tyre monitoring systems
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
There are two different tyre monitoring systems available for this vehicle. Their differing features are
described below:

Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
• Monitoring of various parameters (for example rolling circumference) of all wheels using ABS
sensors (indirect measurement).

Tyre Pressure Monitoring System
• Monitoring of the tyre pressure by means of pressure sensors on each tyre valve (direct
measurement). Tyre valve made of metal.

Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Functional description
The Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator uses data from the ABS sensors and other functions to check the
speed of rotation and the rolling circumference of the individual wheels.

The rolling circumference can change:
• If the tyre pressure has been changed.
• If the tyre pressure is too low.
• If the tyre has structural damage.
• If the vehicle is loaded more heavily on one side.
• If snow chains have been fitted.
• If a temporary spare wheel has been fitted.
• If one wheel per axle has been changed.
The Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator

may react with a delay or not display anything at all in the

event of a sporty driving style, when driving on snow-covered or icy roads or unpaved roads or
when driving with snow chains.

Synchronising the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
• Switch on the ignition.
• Press the

button or function button, depending on version ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .

• Open the Vehicle settings menu in the Infotainment system.
• Touch the

Tyres function button.

• Touch the

SET function button.
Confirm function

• When all four tyre pressures correspond to the required values, touch the
button.

After an extended driving time with driving at different speeds, the system will automatically learn
the new values and monitor them.
• If the tyre pressures have been changed.
• If one or more wheels have been changed.
• If the wheels have been swapped round, e.g. from front to rear ⇒ Rotating wheels front to rear .
The Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator stops working if there is a fault in the ESC or ABS ⇒ Brake
support systems .
After a warning about the tyre pressure being too low, switch the ignition off and then back
on again. The Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator can only then be re-synchronised.

Tyre Pressure Monitoring System

Fig. 234 Typical display in the instrument cluster: current tyre pressures.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Key to ⇒ Fig. 234 :
Target pressure in bar.
Actual pressure in bar.
Loss in pressure in front left.
System fault for rear right tyre.
The Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) monitors the tyre pressure of the four wheels while
the vehicle is in motion using pressure sensors on the tyres. The system warns the driver in the
event of a pressure loss.

Display of tyre pressures on the instrument cluster
Open the menu Vehicle status in the instrument cluster display ⇒ Instrument cluster . The vehicle
is displayed with the target and actual pressures of all the wheels ⇒ Fig. 234 .
When the ignition is switched on, the last measured tyre pressures will be displayed first; these
values will be updated when the journey is started. If the tyre pressure is too low, the respective
actual values and the affected tyres will be marked ⇒ Fig. 234 .
If the tyres are in rest state, the sensors will not transmit any tyre pressures. This stops the sensor
batteries discharging.
If no tyre pressures are transmitted, the last received values are shown in grey.

Switching the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System on and off

1)

Observe any country-specific legal requirements for the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System.
If a set of tyres is fitted to the vehicle where the tyres either do not have wheel sensors or have
wheel sensors that are not compatible with the vehicle, the indicator lamp

will flash for

approximately one minute and then light up steadily. The tyre pressures will not be monitored. The
system cannot be switched off.

Adjusting the tyre pressure
Following any relevant change in the vehicle load, the tyre pressure must be checked and altered
as necessary. The tyre pressures recommended for the vehicle are on a sticker on the driver door
pillar or on the inside of the tank flap ⇒ Tyre pressure .

There may be differences between readings on the pressure gauge when filling the tyres and the
values determined by the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System. The Tyre Pressure Monitoring System
is more precise.

Selecting target pressures for partial or full vehicle load
The driver must select the appropriate target pressure depending on the vehicle load level.
• Switch on the ignition.
button or function button, depending on version ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .

• Press the
• Touch the

Vehicle status function button.

• Touch the

Settings function button.

• Select the Tyres menu option.
• Select the load level.

Selecting the tyre type
While the dimensions of the tyres are changed, it may be necessary to adjust the target pressure
for the new tyres. If no adjustment is necessary, the selection menu will not be available.
• Switch on the ignition.
button or function button, depending on version ⇒ Vehicle settings menu .

• Press the
• Touch the

Vehicle status function button.

• Touch the

Settings function button.

• Select the Tyres menu option.
• Select the appropriate tyre size.
If the tyre sizes are fitted that do not correspond to the factory-specified sizes, the corresponding
target tyre pressures can be entered by a Volkswagen dealer.

Spare wheel or temporary spare wheel
The tyre pressure of the spare wheel or the temporary spare wheel in the luggage compartment is
not monitored.

NOTICE
• The pressure sensors are secured to special aluminium valves that are screwed rigidly
in place. When inflating the tyres and checking the pressure, do not bend the valves
into position.
• Missing valve caps could lead to damage to the valve and the sensors. Always make
sure that all valve caps are fully screwed on. Do not use metal valve caps.
• Do not use convenience valve caps as they do not form a proper seal. This can cause
damage to the sensors.

1)

Depends on the vehicle.

Troubleshooting for the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Lit up
•

Do not drive on!

• Check and adjust all tyre pressures ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• The damaged tyre should be replaced.
• Re-synchronise the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator ⇒ Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator .
• If the problem persists, seek expert assistance.

Flashes
•

Do not drive on!

• Switch the ignition off and then back on again.
• Re-synchronise the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator ⇒ Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator .
• If the problem persists, seek expert assistance.

WARNING
Differing tyre pressures or tyre pressures that are too low can cause tyre damage, tyre
failure, loss of vehicle control, accidents, serious injury and death.
• If the indicator lamp

lights up, stop the vehicle as soon as possible and check all

the tyres ⇒ Useful information about wheels and tyres .
• Different tyre pressures or tyre pressures that are too low can increase wear on the
tyres, reduce vehicle stability and increase the braking distance.
• Differing tyre pressures or tyre pressures that are too low can cause sudden tyre
failure and lead to a tyre bursting and the loss of control over the vehicle.
• The driver is responsible for the correct tyre pressure of all tyres on the vehicle. The
recommended tyre pressure can be found on a sticker ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• The tyre monitoring system cannot function correctly until all cold tyres have the
correct tyre pressure.
• The pressure in all tyres must always be appropriate to the vehicle load ⇒ Tyre
pressure .
• Always inflate all tyres to the correct tyre pressure before every journey ⇒ Tyre
pressure .
• If the vehicle is driven with insufficient tyre pressure, this results in greater tyre flexing.
This could warm up the tyre to such an extent that the tread may separate and the tyre
could burst. This could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle.
• High speeds and overloading of the vehicle may cause the tyres to heat up to such an
extent that the tyre bursts, leading you to lose control of the vehicle.
• If the tyre pressure is too low or too high, the tyres will wear prematurely and the
vehicle will not handle well.
• If the tyre is not flat and it is not necessary to change the wheel immediately, drive at
low speed to the nearest qualified workshop and check and correct the tyre pressure

⇒ Useful information about wheels and tyres .

Driving on unpaved roads for long periods, or a sporty driving style, can temporarily
deactivate the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator. The indicator lamp shows the malfunction, but
disappears if the road conditions or driving style change.

Troubleshooting for the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Lit up
•

Do not drive on!

• Check all wheels for exterior damage or foreign bodies that have entered the tyres.
• Check the tyre pressure for all tyres ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• Change the wheel or drive at a low speed to the nearest qualified workshop.
• Check and adjust the tyre pressure for all tyres ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• Change the wheel or drive at a low speed to the nearest qualified workshop.
• Avoid long journeys and high speeds as long as the warning is displayed.
• Check ⇒ Tyre pressure and adjust the tyre pressure for all tyres.

Flashes
• Switch off or avoid any disruptive sources, e.g. two-way radios, remote controls or children's
toys.
• Switch the ignition off and then back on again. If the problem persists, seek expert assistance.

WARNING
Differing tyre pressures or tyre pressures that are too low can cause tyre damage, tyre
failure, loss of vehicle control, accidents, serious injury and death.
• If the indicator lamp

lights up, stop the vehicle as soon as possible and check all

the tyres ⇒ Useful information about wheels and tyres .
• Different tyre pressures or tyre pressures that are too low can increase wear on the
tyres, reduce vehicle stability and increase the braking distance.
• Differing tyre pressures or tyre pressures that are too low can cause sudden tyre
failure and lead to a tyre bursting and the loss of control over the vehicle.
• The driver is responsible for the correct tyre pressure of all tyres on the vehicle. The
recommended tyre pressure can be found on a sticker ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• The tyre monitoring system cannot function correctly until all cold tyres have the
correct tyre pressure.
• The pressure in all tyres must always be appropriate to the vehicle load ⇒ Tyre
pressure .
• Always inflate all tyres to the correct tyre pressure before every journey ⇒ Tyre
pressure .
• If the vehicle is driven with insufficient tyre pressure, this results in greater tyre flexing.
This could warm up the tyre to such an extent that the tread may separate and the tyre
could burst. This could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle.
• High speeds and overloading of the vehicle may cause the tyres to heat up to such an
extent that the tyre bursts, leading you to lose control of the vehicle.
• If the tyre pressure is too low or too high, the tyres will wear prematurely and the
vehicle will not handle well.
• If the tyre is not flat and it is not necessary to change the wheel immediately, drive at
low speed to the nearest qualified workshop and check and correct the tyre pressure

⇒ Tyre pressure .

Useful information about wheels and tyres
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Handling wheels and tyres
⇒ Wheel rims and wheel bolts
⇒ Tyre pressure
⇒ Tread depth and wear indicators
⇒ Tyre damage
⇒ Spare wheel or temporary spare wheel
⇒ Tyre lettering and tyre type
⇒ Maximum load and speed range for tyres
⇒ Winter tyres
⇒ Snow chains
The tyres are the most used and most underestimated parts of a vehicle. Tyres are very important
as the narrow tyre surfaces are the only contact between the vehicle and the road.
The service life of tyres is dependent on tyre pressure, driving style, handling and correct fitting.

WARNING
New tyres or tyres which are old, worn down or damaged cannot provide full levels of
vehicle control and braking power.
• Incorrect handling of wheels and tyres can reduce vehicle safety and cause accidents
and serious injuries.
• All four wheels must be fitted with radial tyres of the same type, size (rolling
circumference) and the same tread.
• New tyres will have to be run in as they will initially have reduced grip and braking
effect. Drive particularly carefully for the first 600 km in order to prevent accidents and
serious injury.
• Check tyre pressures regularly when the tyres are cold, and always keep to the
specified value. If the tyre pressure is too low, it is possible that the tyre temperature
will increase to such an extent when driving that the tread peels off and the tyre bursts.
• Never drive with worn tyres or tyres that are damaged (cuts, cracks or blisters). Driving
with tyres in this condition can result in blown tyres, accidents and serious injuries.
Worn or damaged tyres must be replaced as soon as possible.
• Never exceed the top speed and load permitted for the fitted tyres.
• The effectiveness of the driver assist systems and brake support systems depends on
the tyre grip.
• If you notice unusual vibrations or if the vehicle pulls to one side when driving, stop
the car immediately and check the wheels and tyres for damage.
• In order to reduce the risk of losing control of the vehicle, and the risk of accident and
serious injury, never loosen the bolts on wheel rims with bolted on wheel rim rings.
• Do not use wheels or tyres if you do not know their history. Used wheels and tyres
could be damaged, even if the damage is not visible.
• Even if they have not been used, old tyres can suddenly lose pressure or burst,
especially at high speeds, and thus cause accidents and serious injuries. Avoid using
tyres that are more than six years old. If you have no alternative, drive slowly and with
extra care at all times.

Handling wheels and tyres

Fig. 235 Diagram showing how to swap wheels.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The wheels and tyres approved by Volkswagen have been carefully selected.

Rotating wheels front to rear
Regularly rotating the wheels as shown in the illustration ⇒ Fig. 235 is recommended to help
ensure that tyres wear evenly. All the tyres will then last for about the same time.
Volkswagen recommends having the wheels changed by a qualified workshop.

Avoiding damage to the rims and tyres
• Always drive over kerbs slowly and at a right angle.
• Check the tyre pressure regularly.
• Never exceed the top speed and load permitted for the tyres that are fitted ⇒ Tyre lettering and
tyre type .
• Damaged or worn tyres must be replaced immediately ⇒ Tyre damage .
• Protect the wheels from contact with corrosive substances, including oils, lubricants, fuel and
brake fluid ⇒

.

• Replace missing dust caps immediately.

Tyres that are older than 6 years
Tyres age through physical and chemical processes that can impair their function. Tyres that have
been stored unused for an extended period of time age quicker than tyres that are used all the time.

Volkswagen recommends replacing tyres that are older than 6 years with new tyres. This also
applies for tyres which appear to still be in good condition and whose tread depth has not yet
reached the minimum value stipulated by legislation ⇒

.

Winter and all-year tyres also largely lose their effectiveness through ageing – regardless of the
remaining tread depth ⇒ Winter tyres .
The age of each tyre can be determined using the manufacturing date ⇒ Tyre lettering and tyre
type .

Storing tyres
Always store tyres in a cool, dry and preferably dark place. Do not store tyres mounted on the rim
vertically.
Any tyres not fitted on rims should be kept in suitable sleeves to protect against dirt and should be
stored vertically (standing on the tread).

New tyres
• Drive particularly carefully for the first 600 km with new tyres as the tyres have to be run in.
Tyres that have not been run in have reduced grip ⇒

and braking effect ⇒

.

• All four wheels must be fitted with tyres of the same type, size, and the same tread pattern.

Replacing tyres
• Always replace tyres at least on an axle-by-axle basis ⇒

.

• Old tyres should only be replaced by tyres that have been approved by Volkswagen for the
vehicle type.
• Never use tyres with an effective size that is larger than Volkswagen-approved tyres.

Re-adapting the Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator
The Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator must be recalibrated each time one or more wheels are replaced.
This also applies for changing the wheels round, e.g. from the front to the rear ⇒ Tyre monitoring
systems .

Vehicles fitted with a Tyre Pressure Monitoring System
If you wish to replace factory-fitted wheels, make sure that the new wheels are equipped with
sensors that are compatible with the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System ⇒ Tyre Pressure Monitoring
System . The vehicle must be driven at a speed of over 25 km/h (15 mph) for an extended period so
that the new wheels can be recognised.
Volkswagen recommends that a new valve set and set of seals is used every time the sensors are
replaced or modified.
Further information on the Tyre Pressure Monitoring System ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .

WARNING
Corrosive liquids and other substances can cause visible and invisible damage to the
tyres, which can cause the tyre to burst.
• Always keep chemicals, oils, lubricants, fuel, brake fluid and other corrosive
substances away from the tyres.

WARNING
Even if they have not been used, old tyres can suddenly lose pressure or burst, especially
at high speeds, and thus cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Avoid using tyres that are more than six years old. If you have no alternative, drive
slowly and with extra care at all times.

WARNING
New tyres will have to be run in as they will initially have reduced grip and braking effect.
• Drive particularly carefully for the first 600 km in order to prevent accidents and
serious injury.

WARNING
Wheels must have the necessary freedom of operation. If the wheels do not have the
necessary freedom of operation, the tyre could rub on parts of the running gear, the
vehicle body and the brake lines. This can lead to a fault in the brake system and to tread
separation and thus to a tyre bursting.
• The actual tyre size must not exceed the tyre dimensions of manufacturers approved
by Volkswagen and must not rub on any vehicle body parts.

NOTICE
Avoid heavy impacts and drive round obstacles whenever possible. Tyres can be
deformed by potholes and kerb edges especially. This can cause damage to the tyres and
wheel rims.

Old tyres should be disposed of as required by legislation.

Volkswagen-approved tyres are guaranteed to have the dimensions that are suitable for the
vehicle. In the case of other tyres, the tyre seller must provide a certificate from the tyre
manufacturer stating that the tyre is also suitable for the vehicle. This certificate must be stored in a
safe place in the vehicle.

Wheel rims and wheel bolts
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Wheel rims, tyres and wheel bolts are matched to the vehicle type. If different rims are fitted, the
correct wheel bolts with the correct length and correctly shaped bolt heads must be used

⇒ Changing a wheel .
For technical reasons, it is not generally possible to use the wheels from other vehicles. This can
also apply to wheels of the same vehicle type.

Wheel bolts
The correct wheel bolts must be used for all vehicle types; these bolts must always be tightened
with the correct tightening torque ⇒ Wheel bolts .

Wheel rims with bolted rim rings or trim elements
Wheel rims with bolted-on rings or trim elements consist of several components. These
components are joined together using special bolts. Damaged wheel rims must be replaced and
must always be repaired by a qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen
dealership for this purpose ⇒

.

Rim identification
In some countries, new wheel rims must contain information on certain properties. The following
information may be provided on the wheel rim:
• Seal of conformity
• Rim size
• Name of manufacturer or brand name
• Date manufactured (month/year)
• Country of origin
• Production number
• Raw materials batch number
• Product code

WARNING
The use of unsuitable or damaged rims can impair vehicle safety and cause accidents and
serious injury.
• Only use rims that have been approved for the vehicle.
• Replace wheel rims in the event of damage.

WARNING
Incorrect loosening and tightening of the bolts on rims with bolted-on rings can cause
accidents and serious injury.
• Never remove the bolts on rims with bolted-on rings.
• All work on rims with bolted-on rings must be carried out by a qualified workshop.
Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Tyre pressure

Fig. 236 Symbols on the tyre pressure sticker.

Fig. 237 On the driver door pillar: tyre pressure sticker (alternatively on the inside of the fuel flap).
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Information on the sticker ⇒ Fig. 236 :
Tyre pressure for the tyres on the front axle.
Tyre pressure for the tyres on the rear axle.
Note: check the tyre pressure when the tyres are cold.
Tyre pressure for partial load.
Vehicle-dependent: comfort tyre pressure for partial load.
Tyre pressure for full load.
Tyre pressure level for the spare or temporary spare wheel.
The sticker provides the correct tyre pressure for approved tyres and is located either on the driver
door pillar ⇒ Fig. 237 or inside the tank flap.
The appearance of the sticker may differ between vehicles. It may include additional tyre sizes

⇒ Tyre lettering and tyre type .
The wrong tyre pressure will have a negative effect on the vehicle's response and leads to high
levels of wear or even a burst tyre ⇒

. The correct tyre pressure is particularly important at high

speeds.

Comfort tyre pressure
Depending on the vehicle, the tyre pressure sticker may show details of a comfort tyre pressure

⇒ Fig. 236③ . The comfort tyre pressure allows increased driving comfort. Fuel consumption may
increase when driving with comfort tyre pressure.

Checking the tyre pressure
• Check the tyre pressure at least once a month.

• Always check the tyre pressure when the tyres are cold. The specified tyre pressure applies to
cold tyres. Tyre pressure is always higher in warm tyres than it is in cold tyres. For this reason,
never reduce the pressure in warm tyres to adjust the tyre pressure.
• Always adjust the tyre pressure to the load level ⇒ Fig. 236④ .
• After adjusting the tyre pressures, always screw the caps onto the valves and observe the
information on the tyre monitoring system ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .
• Always use the tyre pressure specified on the sticker. Never exceed the maximum tyre pressure
which is given on the sidewall of the tyre

WARNING
Incorrect tyre pressure may cause the tyre to suddenly lose pressure or burst while the
vehicle is in motion. This can cause serious accidents and fatal injuries.
• If the tyre pressure is too low, it is possible that the tyre temperature will increase to
such an extent when driving that the tread peels off and the tyre bursts.
• Fast speeds or overloading of the vehicle can cause overheating, sudden tyre damage
including tyre bursts and ripping of the tread surface and thus to a loss of control of
the vehicle.
• If the tyre pressure is too low, the tyres will wear prematurely and the car will not
handle well.
• Check tyre pressures regularly, at least once a month, and before every long journey.
• All tyres must have the correct tyre pressure to suit the vehicle load.
• Never reduce excess pressure when the tyres are warm.

NOTICE
• When attaching the tyre pressure gauge, ensure that you do not position it at an angle
to the valve stem. This can damage the tyre valve.
• Always make sure the valve caps are completely screwed on while driving.

Underinflated tyres will result in increased fuel consumption.

Tread depth and wear indicators

Fig. 238 Tyre tread: wear indicators.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Tread depth
In most countries, the minimum tread depth required by law is 1.6 mm (measured in the tread
grooves next to the tread wear indicators); note any country-specific regulations. The tyres should
have the same tread depth, at the minimum on each axle ⇒

.

Observe any country-specific legal requirements relating to the permissible minimum tread depths
for winter and all-year tyres ⇒ Winter tyres .

Tread wear indicator in tyres
The tread wear indicators show if a tyre is worn down. The tyre must be replaced at the latest when
the tread depth is just down to the tread wear indicator.
The bottom of the tyre tread has 1.6 mm high tread wear indicators ⇒ Fig. 238 . Markings on the
tyre sidewall indicate the position of the tread wear indicators ⇒ Fig. 238 .

WARNING
Worn tyres are a safety risk and can lead to a loss of control of the vehicle and cause
serious injury.
• Tyres must be replaced at the latest when the tread is worn down to the tread wear
indicators.
• Worn tyres have considerably less grip, particularly on wet roads, which can cause the
vehicle to glide along the road surface (aquaplaning).
• Worn tyres reduce the possibility of controlling the vehicle well in normal and difficult
driving situations and increase braking distance and the risk of skidding.

Tyre damage
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Damage to tyres and wheel rims is often hidden ⇒

.

• If you suspect that a wheel is damaged, stop the vehicle as soon as it is safe to do so.
• Check the tyres and rims for damage.
• If a tyre is damaged, do not drive on. Seek expert assistance.
• If there is no visible damage, drive slowly and cautiously to the next qualified workshop in order
to have the vehicle checked.

Foreign bodies in the tyre
• Leave the foreign body in the tyre if it has entered the inner tyre. Foreign bodies that are stuck
between the tyre tread blocks can be removed.
• Replace the damaged wheel ⇒ Changing a wheel or seal the tyre with the breakdown set and
inflate it ⇒ Breakdown set . Seek professional assistance for this if necessary.
• Check and adjust the tyre pressure.
• Go to a qualified workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this
purpose.

Tyre wear
Fast cornering, heavy acceleration and hard braking all increase tyre wear.
Wheel imbalance may develop when the vehicle is driven; you will notice this by nervous steering
response. Unbalanced wheels will affect the level of tyre wear. In this case the wheels should be
balanced again.
Incorrect wheel alignment causes excessive tyre wear, impairing the safety of the vehicle. The
wheel alignment should be checked by a qualified workshop if tyres show excessive wear.

WARNING
If you notice unusual vibration or the car pulling to one side while the vehicle is in motion,
this may indicate that one of the tyres is damaged.
• Reduce speed immediately and park the vehicle without obstructing traffic.
• Check the tyres and rims for damage.
• Never drive on if wheels or tyres are damaged. Seek expert assistance instead.
• If there is no visible damage, drive slowly and cautiously to the next qualified
workshop in order to have the vehicle checked.

Spare wheel or temporary spare wheel

Fig. 239 In the luggage compartment: handwheel for securing the spare wheel.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Removing the spare wheel
• Open the boot lid.
• Raise or fold forward the luggage compartment floor ⇒ Boot lid .
• Pull the wedge of the locating element ⇒ Fig. 239① upwards and out.
• Unscrew the handwheel in the middle of the spare wheel ② anticlockwise fully and remove the
spare wheel.

Storing the removed wheel
• Open the boot lid and raise the luggage compartment floor or fold it forwards.
• Place the removed wheel into the spare wheel well with the rim facing downwards so that the
central hole in the rim positioned exactly above the threaded pin.
• Screw the handwheel ⇒ Fig. 239② clockwise onto the threaded pin until the replaced wheel is
firmly secured.
• Insert the locating element wedge ① into the slot of the threaded pin so that the handwheel can
no longer be turned.

If the spare wheel tyre is not the same as the tyres that are mounted on
the vehicle
If the spare wheel tyre differs from the other tyres on the vehicle, the spare wheel must be used
only in the event of a tyre failure and for a short time ⇒

.

Follow these guidelines:
• Do not drive faster than 80 km/h (50 mph).
• Avoid full acceleration, sudden braking and fast driving through bends in the road.
• Do not use snow chains on the temporary spare wheel ⇒ Snow chains .
• The tyre pressure must be checked as soon as possible after fitting the spare wheel or
temporary spare wheel ⇒ Tyre pressure .

WARNING
Incorrect use of the spare wheel or temporary spare wheel can lead to a loss of control of
the vehicle, to collisions or other accidents and cause serious injuries.
• Never use a spare wheel or temporary spare wheel if it is damaged or worn down to the
tread wear indicators.
• Some vehicles may be equipped with a temporary spare wheel instead of a spare
wheel. The temporary spare wheel can be recognised by a sticker and the text 80 km/h
or 50 mph. This is the maximum speed at which you are permitted to drive with this
tyre. The sticker must remain in place throughout the wheel's service life.
• Never drive faster than 80 km/h (50 mph). Do not accelerate quickly, brake suddenly or
drive at high speed through bends.
• Never drive further than 200 km with a temporary spare wheel if it is fitted to the drive
axle.
• The temporary spare wheel should be exchanged for a normal wheel as soon as
possible. The temporary spare wheel is designed for a short period of use only.
• The temporary spare wheel must always be secured firmly with the wheel bolts
supplied by the factory.
• Never drive using more than one spare wheel that is a different size than the original
tyres.
• After fitting the temporary spare wheel, the tyre pressure must be checked as soon as
possible ⇒ Tyre pressure .
• Snow chains must not be used on the temporary spare wheel.
• Do not fit a temporary spare wheel to the rear axle when towing a trailer ⇒ .

NOTICE
The spare wheel is not fitted with a tyre pressure sensor. If the spare wheel is used with
tyre pressure sensor, the tyre monitoring system indicator lamp will flash in the instrument
cluster display after approximately ten minutes ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .

Tyre lettering and tyre type

Fig. 240 International tyre lettering.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

⇒ Fig. 240 Tyre lettering

Meaning

(example)

①

Product name

②

DOT

Individual tyre lettering from manufacturer.
The tyre complies with the legal requirements of the USA
Department of Transportation, responsible for tyre safety
standards.
Tyre identification number (

a)

– may be only on the

inner side of the wheel) and date of manufacture:
③

JHCO CHWS 2213

JHCO
CHWS
2213

Identifier of producing plant and
specifications of the tyre manufacturer on
size and characteristics.
Manufacture date: 22nd week in 2013.

Information for the end user concerning comparative values for specified basic tyres
(standardised test procedure) ⇒ Customer information :
Relative life expectancy for the tyre, with reference to a
US-specific standard test. Tyres with the specification 280
are used up at a rate of 2.8 times more slowly than
④

TREADWEAR 280

standard tyres which have a treadwear value of 100. The
performance of tyres is determined by how they are used
and can notably deviate from norm values due to driving
style, maintenance, road surface and climatic conditions.
Wet braking response of the tyre (AA, A, B or C). This is
tested under controlled conditions on certified testing
routes. Tyres marked C have a low traction performance.

⑤

TRACTION AA

The traction value assigned to the tyres is based on linear
traction tests and does not include acceleration and
lateral stability or aquaplaning and traction under
maximum load.
Temperature stability of the tyre at higher test speeds (A,
B or C). A and B tyres exceed legal requirements. The
temperature evaluation is based on tyres with correct

⑥

TEMPERATURE A

pressure and does not allow for excess pressure.
Excessive speed, incorrect pressure or excess pressure
can cause heat build-up or tyre damage. This applies to
one or a combination of these factors.

⑦

88 H

Rotation and arrow
⑧
OR: outside

Load index ⇒ Tyre load and speed index ⇒ Speed
index .
Denotes direction of rotation of the tyres ⇒ Tyres with
directional tread pattern .
Denotes outside of tyres ⇒ Asymmetrical tyres .

MAX INFLATION
⑨

350 kPa (51 psi /

US limitation for the maximum air pressure.

3.51 bar)
Denotes winter tyres (mud and snow tyres) ⇒ Winter
⑩

M+S or M/S or

tyres . Studded snow tyres are labelled with an E after the
S.
Indicates the position of the tread wear indicator ⇒ Tread

⑪

TWI

⑫

Brand name, logo

Manufacturer.

⑬

Made in Germany

Country of manufacture.

depth and wear indicators .

Country-specific denotation for China (China Compulsory

⑭
⑮
⑯

Certification).
023
E4 e4 0200477-b

Country-specific denotation for Brazil.
Certification of conformity with international regulations.
The next number is the code number of the country that
granted approval. Approved tyres which comply with ECE
regulations are denoted with E, tyres which comply with

⇒ Fig. 240 Tyre lettering

Meaning

(example)

EC regulations are denoted with e. This is followed by the
number of the type approval certificate.
⑰

RADIAL TUBELESS

Tubeless radial tyres.
Size designation:

⑱

⑲

⑳

P

Identification for passenger vehicle.

195

Tyre width from wall to wall in mm.

65

Height/width ratio in %.

R

Tyre construction: radial.

15

Rim diameter in inches.

XL

Heavy-duty tyres (extra load tyres).

P 195 / 65 R 15 XL

MAX LOAD 615 KG
(1235 LBS)

US load data for the maximum load per wheel.

SIDEWALL 1 PLY

Data on the tyre carcass components:

RAYON

1 ply of rayon (artificial silk).

TREAD 4 PLIES

Data on the tread surface components:

1 RAYON + 2 STEEL +
1 NYLON

In the example there are 4 plies under the tread surface:
1 ply of rayon (artificial silk), 2 steel belt plies and 1 nylon
ply.

The tyre lettering is located on both sides. Certain labels may only be found on one side of the tyre,
e.g. tyre identification number and manufacturing date.
Any further numbers and letters are internal codes used by the tyre manufacturer or
country-specific denotations.

Low-profile tyres
Low-profile tyres have a wider tread surface, larger rim diameter and lower side walls than
conventional wheel/tyre combinations ⇒

. Low-profile tyres can improve the vehicle's handling

and precision. They may however result in a less comfortable ride on uneven road surfaces and
tracks.

Tyres with directional tread pattern
An arrow on the tyre sidewall indicates the direction of rotation on tyres with directional tread. The
direction of rotation must be observed in all cases. This guarantees the best possible running
characteristics.
If, however, the tyre is fitted in the opposite direction to the tread pattern, you must take more care
when driving as the tyre is now no longer being used according to its designation. The tyres must
be replaced as quickly as possible or be fitted with the tread in the correct direction.

Asymmetrical tyres
Asymmetrical tyres take into account the differing behaviour of the inner and outer areas of the
tread pattern. The sidewalls of asymmetrical tyres are marked to indicate "inside" or "outside".
Maintain the correct tyre positioning on the wheel rim.

Tyre load
The load capacity index indicates how many kilograms can be loaded onto an individual tyre (tyre
load).
Examples:
78425 kg81462 kg83487
kg85515kg87545kg88560kg91615kg92630kg93650kg95690kg97730kg99775kg100800kg101825kg102850kg103875kg104900kg

Speed index
The speed index indicates the maximum permitted speed that may be driven when particular
wheels are fitted.
Pmax. 150km/h (93mph)Qmax. 160km/h (99mph)Rmax. 170km/h (106mph)Smax. 180km/h
(112mph)Tmax. 190km/h (118mph)Umax. 200km/h (125mph)Hmax. 210km/h (130mph)
Vmax. 240km/h (149mph)Wmax. 270km/h (168mph)Ymax. 300km/h (186mph)Zover 240km/h
(149mph)
Some tyre manufacturers use the code ZR for tyres with a highest permitted speed of over 240km/h
(149mph).

a)

The TIN is the tyre serial number.

Maximum load and speed range for tyres
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Vehicles in the EU and the so-called EU user states are issued an EC Certificate of Conformity.
This details the size, diameter and speed range of all tyres approved by Volkswagen for the
relevant vehicle type.
The type plate shows whether there is an EC certificate of conformity for this particular vehicle. The
type plate can be seen on the lower part of the door pillar when the door is open ⇒ Technical data .
• If the type plate has a row marked Permit then the vehicle does have an EC certificate of
conformity.
• If there is no type plate, or no row marked Permit the vehicle does not have an EC certificate of
conformity.

Winter tyres
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Winter or all-year tyres improve the handling and brake response in winter conditions. Volkswagen
recommends that winter tyres be fitted to the vehicle at temperatures below +7°C (+45°F) or in
winter road conditions.
Winter tyres and all-year tyres lose a large degree of their effectiveness for winter conditions when
the tread is worn down to a depth of 4 mm.

The following applies when using winter tyres:
• Observe any country-specific legal requirements.
• Use winter tyres on all four wheels at the same time.
• Only use in winter road conditions.
• Only use the sizes of tyre that have been approved for the vehicle.
• Winter tyres must have the same belt type, size and the same tread pattern.
• Observe the maximum speed permitted by the speed index ⇒

.

Speed limitation
Winter tyres have a speed limit depending on the speed index ⇒ Tyre lettering and tyre type .
Speed warning settings can be made and adjusted in the Infotainment system using the
button and the

and

Tyres function buttons ⇒ Operation and display in the

Infotainment system .
If you use V-rated tyres, the speed limits and required tyre pressure will be determined by the
engine size. You must ask a Volkswagen dealership about the maximum permitted speed and
required tyre pressure.

Four-wheel drive (4MOTION)
Thanks to its four-wheel drive, the vehicle will have plenty of traction in winter conditions, even with
the standard tyres. Nevertheless, Volkswagen still recommends that winter tyres or all-year tyres
should be fitted on all 4 wheels in winter, mainly because this will give a better braking response.
Observe information on snow chains⇒ Snow chains .

WARNING
The improved winter driving characteristics afforded by the winter tyres should not
encourage you to take any risks.
• Adapt your speed and driving style to suit visibility, weather, road and traffic
conditions.
• Never exceed the top speed and load permitted for the winter tyres that are fitted.

Summer tyres should be fitted in good time at the end of the winter. The vehicle handling is
better if summer tyres are fitted at temperatures above +7°C (+45°F). They are quieter, do not wear
so quickly and reduce fuel consumption.

In vehicles with a Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator, the system has to re-synchronise after
wheels are changed ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .
Volkswagen dealerships can provide details on permissible winter tyre sizes.

Snow chains
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Please observe legislation and also the maximum permitted speed when driving your vehicle with
snow chains.
On icy or snow-covered roads, snow chains will improve traction and braking response.
Snow chains may only be fitted on the front wheels – even on four-wheel drive vehicles
(4MOTION) – and only with the following wheel and tyre combinations:

Tyre size

Wheel
6 1/2 J x 17 offset 38

Type of snow chains to use
Only fine-linked snow chains that add no more than
about 13.5 mm.

215 / 65 R 17
7 J x 17 offset 40

Only fine-linked snow chains that add no more than
about 9 mm.

Volkswagen recommends that you ask your Volkswagen dealership for information about
appropriate wheel, tyre and snow chain size.
Remove hubcaps and trim rings before fitting snow chains ⇒

. For safety reasons cover caps

must then be fitted over the wheel bolts. Caps are available from Volkswagen dealerships.

Mounting the temporary spare wheel in the event of a puncture on a front
wheel
For technical reasons, snow chains must not be used on the temporary spare wheel ⇒ Spare wheel
or temporary spare wheel .
• In event of a flat tyre on one of the front wheels, mount the temporary spare wheel to the rear
axle.
• Replace the damaged front wheel with the removed rear wheel. Note the direction of rotation.
Volkswagen recommends fitting the snow chains before mounting the wheel on the car.

WARNING
The use of snow chains that are unsuitable for your vehicle or the incorrect installation of
snow chains can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Always use the correct snow chains.
• Follow the assembly instructions provided by the snow chain manufacturer.
• Never exceed the maximum speed permitted for the snow chains that are fitted.

NOTICE
• Remove the snow chains when driving on roads that are free of snow. The snow chains
will otherwise impair handling, damage the tyres and wear out very quickly.
• Snow chains that are in direct contact with the wheel can scratch or damage it.
Volkswagen recommends using snow chains with integrated rim protection.

In vehicles with a Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator, the system may have to be re-synchronised
when snow chains are fitted ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .

Hubcaps
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Centre cover
⇒ Wheel cover
⇒ Wheel bolt caps

WARNING
Using unsuitable hubcaps, or fitting them incorrectly, can cause accidents and serious
injuries.
• Incorrectly fitted hubcaps can become loose while the vehicle is in motion and
endanger other road users.
• Do not use damaged hubcaps.
• Always ensure that the airflow to cool the brakes is not restricted or reduced. This also
applies if hubcaps are retrofitted. If the airflow is not sufficient, the braking distance
could increase significantly.

Centre cover

Fig. 241 Removing the centre covers by pulling.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The centre wheel trim protects the wheel bolts and must be fitted again after changing the wheel.

Removing and installing the centre wheel trim
• To remove: take the wire hook from the vehicle tool kit ⇒ Vehicle toolkit and hook it into the
edge of the cover ⇒ Fig. 241 .
• Remove the cover in the direction of the arrow.
• To replace: press the centre wheel trim against the rim until you feel it engage.

Wheel cover

Fig. 242 Removing the wheel covers.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The wheel cover protects the wheel bolts and must be fitted again after changing the wheel.

Removing the wheel covers
• Take the box spanner and wire hook from the vehicle tool kit ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .
• Insert the wire hook into one of the holes in the wheel cover.
• Push the box spanner through the wire hook ⇒ Fig. 242 and remove the wheel cover in the
direction of the arrow.

Fitting the wheel covers
• Screw in the anti-theft wheel bolt at position ⇒ Fig. 245 ② or ③.
• Press the wheel cover onto the rim so that the valve hole is located over the tyre valve

⇒ Fig. 245① .
The wheel cover must engage securely in position around the entire circumference.

Wheel bolt caps

Fig. 243 Removing the wheel bolt caps.

First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The caps protect the wheel bolts and should be placed fully back in position after changing the
wheel.

Removing and fitting the caps
• Removing: take the wire hook from the vehicle tool kit ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .
• Insert the wire hook through the opening in the cap ⇒ Fig. 243 and pull off in the direction of
the arrow.
• Fitting: press the caps on the bolts as far as they will go.
The anti-theft wheel bolt has a separate cap. It only fits onto the anti-theft wheel bolts and not
onto conventional wheel bolts.

Changing a wheel
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Preparations for changing a wheel
⇒ Wheel bolts
⇒ Lifting the vehicle with the jack
⇒ Changing a wheel
⇒ After changing a wheel
Some models are delivered from the factory without a jack or box spanner. If this is the case, the
wheel should be changed by a qualified workshop.
The vehicle jack supplied with the vehicle is only designed for changing a wheel when one vehicle
tyre is damaged and has to be replaced. If both tyres on one side of the vehicle, both tyres on one
axle, or all tyres are damaged, seek expert assistance.

WARNING
Changing a wheel can be dangerous, especially when carried out at the side of a road.
Please note the following steps in order to reduce the risk of serious injuries:
• Stop the vehicle as soon as it is possible and safe to do so. Park the vehicle at a safe
distance from moving traffic in order to carry out the wheel change.
• All passengers and children in particular must be at a safe distance and away from
your area of work during the wheel change.
• Switch on the hazard warning lights to warn other road users.
• Check that the surface the vehicle is parked on is level and firm. If necessary use a
large, strong board or similar support for the vehicle jack.
• Only change the wheel yourself if you feel confident carrying out the procedure. If not,
seek expert assistance.
• Always use suitable and undamaged tools to change the wheel.
• Always switch off the engine, switch on the electronic parking brake and move the
selector lever to the position P or select a gear on a manual gearbox in order to reduce
the risk of unintended vehicle movement.
• The wheel bolt tightening torque should be checked with a torque wrench immediately
after changing a wheel.
• In the case of vehicles with a Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator, the system must be resynchronised immediately after new tyres are fitted ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .

Preparations for changing a wheel
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Checklist
The following actions must always be carried out in the given order in preparation for
changing the wheel ⇒

:

If your vehicle has a flat tyre, park the vehicle on a firm and level surface at a safe distance
from moving traffic.
Switch on the electronic parking brake Parking and manoeuvring.
With a DSG® dual clutch gearbox, move the selector lever to position P DSG® dual clutch
gearbox.
Stop the engine and remove the key from the ignition Starting and stopping the engine.
Manual gearbox: select a gear Manual gearbox: selecting a gear.

Ask all vehicle occupants to leave the vehicle and stand at a safe distance away from moving
traffic.
Chock the wheel diagonally opposite the wheel being worked on with a stone, collapsible
chocks or another suitable object.
When towing a trailer: unhitch the trailer from the vehicle and park it properly .
Remove any items of luggage from the luggage compartment.
Remove the spare wheel or temporary spare wheel and the vehicle tool kit from the
luggage compartment.
Remove the hubcaps Hubcaps.

WARNING
Ignoring any of the items on this important safety checklist can lead to accidents and
severe injuries.
• Always follow the instructions in the checklist and observe the general safety
procedures.

Wheel bolts

Fig. 244 Changing a wheel: loosening the wheel bolts.

Fig. 245 Changing a wheel: tyre valve ① and locations of the anti-theft wheel bolt ② or ③.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Use a suitable box spanner to loosen the wheel bolts.
Only loosen the wheel bolts by approximately one turn before raising the vehicle with the vehicle
jack.
If the wheel bolt is very tight, you may be able to loosen it by pushing down the end of the spanner
carefully with your foot. Hold on to the car for support and take care not to slip.

Loosening the wheel bolts
• Fit the box spanner over the wheel bolt as far as it will go ⇒ Fig. 244 .
• Hold the end of the box spanner and turn the wheel bolt one turn anticlockwise ⇒

.

Loosening the anti-theft wheel bolt
• Take the adapter for the anti-theft wheel bolt out of the vehicle tool kit.
• Insert the adapter into the anti-theft wheel bolt as far as it will go.
• Push the box spanner onto the adapter as far as it will go.
• Hold the end of the box spanner and turn the wheel bolt one turn anticlockwise ⇒

.

Tightening torque for the wheel bolts
Specified tightening torque for wheel bolts for steel or alloy wheels:
• 140 Nm
If the wheel bolts are corroded and difficult to turn, they must be replaced and the wheel hub
threads cleaned before the tightening torque is checked.
Never grease or lubricate the wheel bolts or the threads of the wheel hub.

The tightening torque should be checked with a properly functioning torque wrench immediately
after changing a wheel.

WARNING
Incorrectly tightened wheel bolts can loosen while the vehicle is in motion and cause
accidents, serious injury, and loss of control of the vehicle.
• Only use wheel bolts that belong to the wheel.
• Never use different wheel bolts.
• The wheel bolts and threads of the wheel hubs must be clean, free from oil and grease,
and turn easily.
• Always use the box spanner placed in the vehicle at the factory to loosen and tighten
the wheel bolts.
• Only loosen the wheel bolts by approximately one turn before raising the vehicle with
the vehicle jack.
• Never grease or lubricate the wheel bolts or the threads of the wheel hub. This could
cause them to loosen while the vehicle is in motion, even if the required torque setting
is used.
• Never remove the bolts on rims with bolted-on rings.
• If the tightening torque of the wheel bolts is too low, the wheel bolts and rims can
loosen while the vehicle is in motion. The wheel bolts and threads can be damaged if
the tightening torque is too high.

Lifting the vehicle with the jack

Fig. 246 Lifting points for the jack.

Fig. 247 Vehicle jack at the rear left-hand side of the vehicle.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The jack may be positioned only at the reinforcements on the underbody, which are located behind
the markings on the body ⇒ Fig. 246 . Always use the jacking point closest to the wheel you are
working on ⇒

.

Checklist
For your own safety, carry out the following points in the specified order ⇒

:

Find a firm and level surface suitable for lifting the vehicle.
Stop the engine, with a manual gearbox select a gear or with a DSG® dual clutch gearbox
move the selector lever to position P DSG® dual clutch gearbox and switch on the
electronic parking brake Parking and manoeuvring.
Chock both wheels on the opposite side of the vehicle using the collapsible chocks or
other suitable objects.
Loosen the wheel bolts Wheel bolts.
Find the jacking point under the vehicle which is closest to the wheel that is being
changed.
Insert the hand crank into the opening on the jack (depending on equipment).
Crank up the jack until it just fits under the jacking point of the vehicle.
Ensure that the entire surface of the foot of the jack is resting securely on the ground, and
that the foot of the jack is positioned fully underneath the point of application and .
Position the jack and simultaneously continue to crank the claw up until it is in position
around the vertical rib underneath the vehicle .

Crank the jack further until the wheel is just clear of the ground.

WARNING
Incorrect use of the vehicle jack can cause the vehicle to slip off the jack, which can lead
to severe injuries. Please note the following to help reduce the risk of injuries:
• Only use vehicle jacks that have been approved by Volkswagen for your vehicle type.
Other vehicle jacks could slip out of position – this includes vehicle jacks supplied
with other Volkswagen models.
• The ground must be firm and level. Soft ground or surfaces at an incline under the
vehicle jack may cause the vehicle to slip off the jack. If necessary use a large, strong
board or similar support for the vehicle jack.
• On a hard, slippery surface (such as tiles) use a rubber mat or similar to prevent the
vehicle jack from slipping.
• Fit the vehicle jack only at the points described. The jack claw must securely grip the
vertical rib under the side member ⇒ Fig. 247 .
• Never place any part of your body (e.g. an arm or leg) underneath the vehicle if the
latter is only supported by the vehicle jack.
• If you have to work underneath the vehicle, use suitable stands to provide extra
support for the vehicle.
• Never lift the vehicle when the engine is running, or if the vehicle is tilted to the side or
on a gradient.
• Never start the engine when the vehicle is raised on a vehicle jack. Engine vibrations
can cause the vehicle to fall off the vehicle jack.

WARNING
Ignoring any of the items on this important safety checklist can lead to accidents and
severe injuries.
• Always follow the instructions in the checklist and observe the general safety
procedures.

Changing a wheel

Fig. 248 Changing the wheel: removing the wheel bolts with the screwdriver handle.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Removing the wheel
• Observe the checklist ⇒ Preparations for changing a wheel .
• Loosen the wheel bolts ⇒ Wheel bolts .
• Jack up the vehicle ⇒ Lifting the vehicle with the jack .
• Using the hexagon socket in the screwdriver handle ⇒ Fig. 248 , completely unscrew the
loosened wheel bolts and place them on a clean surface.
• Remove the wheel.

Fitting the spare wheel or temporary spare wheel
Note the tyre direction of rotation ⇒ Tyre lettering and tyre type .
• Put the wheel in place.
• Screw in the anti-theft wheel bolt using the adapter at position ⇒ Fig. 245② or ③ and tighten it
slightly in a clockwise direction.
• Screw in all the other wheel bolts in clockwise direction and tighten them slightly.
• Lower the vehicle with the jack.
• Use the box spanner to tighten all the wheel bolts securely in a clockwise direction ⇒
not tighten the bolts in clockwise or anticlockwise sequence. Tighten them in diagonal
sequence.
• Fit the caps, wheel centre trim or wheel cover ⇒ Hubcaps .

. Do

WARNING
Incorrect torque or incorrect use of wheel bolts can lead to a loss of control of the vehicle,
cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Always keep all wheel bolts and threads in the wheel hubs clean and free from oil and
grease. The wheel bolts must be easy to turn and be tightened to the specified torque.
• The hexagonal socket in the screwdriver handle should only be used for turning wheel
bolts, not use for loosening or tightening them.

After changing a wheel
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
• Clean the tools from the vehicle tool kit and place them back in the foam rubber holder in the
luggage compartment ⇒ Vehicle toolkit .
• Stow the changed wheel securely in the luggage compartment.
• Have the tightening torque of the wheel bolts checked immediately ⇒ Tightening torque for the
wheel bolts .
• The damaged wheel should be replaced as soon as possible.
In vehicles with a Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator, the system has to re-synchronise after
wheels are changed ⇒ Tyre monitoring systems .

Breakdown set
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the followingsubjects:

⇒ Contents of the breakdown set
⇒ Preparation
⇒ Sealing and inflating tyres
⇒ Test after driving for 10 minutes
The breakdown set can be used to temporarily and reliably seal any tyre damage caused by foreign
bodies or punctures (up to approx. 4 mm in diameter). Do not remove foreign objects (e.g.
screws or nails) from the tyre!
Once the sealant has been added to the tyre, the tyre pressure must be checked and adjusted
again after approximately ten minutes of driving.
Seek expert assistance if more than one of the vehicle's tyres is damaged. The breakdown set is
designed to fill only one tyre.
Use the breakdown set only when the vehicle has been safely parked and if you are familiar with
the work and safety precautions needed. Seek expert assistance if this is not the case.

The tyre sealant must not be used:
• If the rim is damaged.
• If the outside temperature is below -20°C (-4°F).
• If there are cuts or punctures in the tyre that are larger than 4 mm.
• If the vehicle was driven with very low tyre pressure or a flat tyre.
• If the use-by date on the tyre filler bottle has expired.
®

®

• In conjunction with AirStop tyres. You can tell if your vehicle is equipped with AirStop tyres if
there is the word Seal on the outside of the tyres.

WARNING
Using the breakdown set can be dangerous, especially if the tyres are inflated at the
roadside. Please note the following steps in order to reduce the risk of serious injuries:
• Stop the vehicle as soon as it is possible and safe to do so. Park the vehicle at a safe
distance from moving traffic in order to fill the tyre.
• Check that the surface the vehicle is parked on is level and firm.
• All passengers, and children in particular, must be at a safe distance and away from
your area of work.
• Switch on the hazard warning lights to warn other road users.
• The breakdown set should only be used if you feel confident with carrying out the
procedure. If not, seek expert assistance.
• Tyres repaired with the breakdown set are intended for temporary, emergency use
only. They should only be used until you can reach the nearest qualified workshop.
• Tyres that have been repaired using the breakdown set should be replaced as soon as
possible.
• Sealant is hazardous to health and must be washed off immediately if it gets onto the
skin.
• The breakdown set must be stored out of the reach of children.
• Never use a vehicle jack, even if it is approved for the vehicle.
• Always switch off the engine, switch on the electronic parking brake and move the
selector lever to the position P or select a gear on a manual gearbox in order to reduce
the risk of unintended vehicle movement.

WARNING
Tyres that have been filled with sealant will not handle in the same way as a standard tyre.
• Never drive faster than 80 km/h (50 mph).
• Avoid full acceleration, sudden braking and fast driving through bends in the road.
• Drive for just 10 minutes at no more than 80 km/h (50 mph) and then check the tyre.

Dispose of used or out-of-date sealant in accordance with legal requirements.

You can get a new tyre filler bottle from a Volkswagen dealership.

Observe the separate instructions from the manufacturer of the breakdown set.

Contents of the breakdown set

Fig. 249 The breakdown set.
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
The breakdown set is located underneath the floor covering in the luggage compartment. It
includes the following components ⇒ Fig. 249 :
Valve core extractor.
Sticker with the maximum permitted speed max. 80 km/h or max. 50 mph.
Filler hose with plug.
Air compressor.
On/off switch
1)

Air bleed screw .
1)

Tyre pressure display .

Tyre filler hose.
12-volt plug.
Tyre filler bottle with sealant.
Spare valve core.
There is a slot on the lower end of the valve insert extractor ① for the valve insert. This is
required for extracting and fitting the tyre valve. This also applies to the spare valve core ⑪.
1)

Could also be integrated in the tyre filler hose.

Preparation
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Checklist
Always carry out the following actions in the given order ⇒

:

If you get a flat tyre, park your vehicle on a firm and level surface at a safe distance from
the flow of traffic.
Switch on the electronic parking brake Parking and manoeuvring.
With a DSG® dual clutch gearbox, move the selector lever to position P DSG® dual clutch
gearbox.
Stop the engine and remove the key from the ignition Starting and stopping the engine.
Manual gearbox: select a gear Manual gearbox: selecting a gear.
Ask all vehicle occupants to leave the vehicle and stand at a safe distance away from
moving traffic.
Switch on the hazard warning lights and position the warning triangle In an emergency.
Observe any legal requirements.
Check whether the puncture can be repaired with the breakdown set The tyre sealant must
not be used:.
When towing a trailer: unhitch the trailer from the vehicle and park it properly .
Remove any items of luggage from the luggage compartment.
Take the breakdown set out of the luggage compartment.
Take the sticker ② from the breakdown set and stick it on the dash panel within the
driver's field of vision.
Do not remove foreign objects (e.g. screws or nails) from the tyre.

WARNING
Ignoring any of the items on this important safety checklist can lead to accidents and
severe injuries.
• Always follow the instructions in the checklist and observe the general safety
procedures.

Sealing and inflating tyres
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction

Sealing a tyre
• Unscrew the cap from the tyre valve.
• Use the valve core extractor ⇒ Fig. 249① to screw the valve core out of the tyre valve. Place
the core on a clean surface.
• Shake the tyre filler bottle ⇒ Fig. 249⑩ vigorously up and down several times.
• Screw the filler hose ⇒ Fig. 249③ tightly onto the tyre filler bottle in a clockwise direction. The
plastic foil on the plug is pierced automatically.
• Remove the plug from the filler hose ⇒ Fig. 249③ and place the open end fully on the tyre
valve.
• Hold the bottle upside down and inject the entire contents of the tyre filler bottle into the tyre.
• Remove the empty tyre filler bottle from the valve.
• Use the valve core extractor ⇒ Fig. 249① to screw the valve core back onto the tyre valve.

Inflating the tyre
• Screw the tyre filler hose ⇒ Fig. 249⑧ of the air compressor tightly onto the tyre valve.
• Check that the bleed screw ⇒ Fig. 249⑥ is closed.
• Start the engine and let it run.

• Insert the 12-volt plug ⇒ Fig. 249⑨ into one of the vehicle's 12-volt sockets ⇒ Electrical
sockets .
• Use the on/off switch ⇒ Fig. 249⑤ to switch on the air compressor.
• Run the air compressor until the tyre pressure has reached 2.0 – 2.5 bar (29 – 36 psi /
200 – 250 kPa) ⇒

. The maximum running time is eight minutes⇒

.

• Switch off the air compressor.
• If a pressure level of 2.0 – 2.5 bar (29 – 36 psi / 200 – 250 kPa) cannot be achieved, unscrew
the tyre filler hose from the tyre valve.
• Drive (or reverse) the vehicle approximately ten metres so that the sealing compound is more
evenly distributed in the tyre.
• Screw the tyre filler hose for the air compressor firmly back onto the tyre valve and inflate the
tyre again.
• If the required pressure still cannot be reached, the tyre is too badly damaged. The tyre cannot
be sealed with the breakdown set. Do not drive on. Seek expert assistance ⇒

.

• Disconnect the air compressor and unscrew the tyre filler hose from the tyre valve.
• Drive the vehicle no faster than 80 km/h (50 mph) if a tyre pressure of 2.0 – 2.5 bar (29 – 36 psi
/ 200 – 250 kPa) has been reached.
• Check the tyre pressure after driving for ten minutes⇒ Test after driving for 10 minutes .

WARNING
The tyre filler hose and the air compressor can get hot during inflation.
• Protect your hands and skin from the hot components.
• Do not place the hot tyre filler hose or the hot air compressor on any inflammable
materials.
• Allow the device to cool down fully before stowing.
• If the tyre will not inflate to at least 2.0 bar (29 psi / 200 kPa), the tyre is too damaged.
The sealant is unable to seal the tyre. Do not drive on. Seek expert assistance.

NOTICE
Switch the air compressor off after a maximum of 8 minutes to avoid overheating. Let the
air compressor cool down for a few minutes before switching it back on.

Test after driving for 10 minutes
First read and observe the introductoryinformation and safety warnings⇒
Introduction
Reconnect the tyre filler hose ⇒ Fig. 249⑧ and read off the tyre pressure on the tyre pressure
display ⑦.

1.3 bar (19 psi / 130 kPa) and lower:
• Do not drive on! The tyre cannot be sealed adequately with the breakdown set.
• Seek expert assistance ⇒

.

1.4 bar (20 psi / 140 kPa) and higher:
• Adjust the tyre pressure back to the correct value ⇒ Useful information about wheels and tyres .
• Resume your journey to the nearest qualified workshop. Do not exceed a maximum speed of
80 km/h (50 mph).
• The damaged tyre should be replaced at the qualified workshop.

WARNING
Driving with an unsealed tyre is dangerous as it can cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Do not carry on driving if the tyre pressure is 1.3 bar (19 psi / 130 kPa) or lower.
• Seek expert assistance.

Maintenance
Service
Service work and digital service schedule
The vehicle data attached to the inside cover of this owner's manual help ensure that you can
®

have the correct Volkswagen Genuine Parts installed in your vehicle whenever required. The data
also determine which type of service applies to your vehicle.

The vehicle data sticker confirms when the vehicle was first registered or delivered, when the
delivery inspection was carried out, and thus the date from which your vehicle is covered by our
warranty.

Saving the service operations performed (digital service schedule)
Each service record is stored by your Volkswagen dealership and qualified workshop in a central
system. This transparent documentation of the service history allows the service operations
performed to be reproduced at any time. Each time you have your vehicle serviced, Volkswagen
recommends asking for a printed service record, which contains all service work stored in the
system.
With every service, the printout of the previous service record is replaced by a current printout.
The digital service schedule is not available in some markets. In this case, your Volkswagen
dealership will inform you about the documentation process for service work.

Service work
The following information is documented in the digital service schedule by your Volkswagen
dealership or qualified workshop:
• When which service was carried out.
• Whether any repairs are recommended, such as replacement of the brake pads in the near
future.
• Whether you had any special requests before or during the maintenance work (your service
advisor will note these on the order).
• Which components or service fluids were changed.
• When your next service is scheduled for.
The LongLife mobility guarantee is valid until the next inspection is due. Documentation takes place
at every due inspection.
The type and scope of service work may differ from vehicle to vehicle. Information on specific work
for your vehicle can be requested from a qualified workshop.

WARNING
Inadequate servicing, no servicing at all, or failure to adhere to service intervals can result
in breakdowns, accidents and serious injury.
• Have your service work carried out by an authorised Volkswagen dealership or
workshop.

NOTICE
Volkswagen is not responsible for any vehicle damage caused by inadequate service work
or the lack of part availability.

Regular servicing of your vehicle not only maintains its value, it also ensures that your
vehicle remains roadworthy and in working order. You should therefore have your vehicle serviced
according to the Volkswagen guidelines.

Fixed service or flexible service

Fig. 250 Vehicle data sticker with PR number for the relevant service.

The service events differ according to oil change service and inspection. The service interval
display in the display of the instrument cluster serves as a reminder for the due date of the next
service event.
Your vehicle will receive either the fixed service or flexible service for the oil change service,
depending on the vehicle equipment, the engine type and the operating conditions.

How do I know which type of service my vehicle needs?

• From the PR number on the vehicle data sticker ⇒ Fig. 250 (arrow) ⇒ Technical data .
• From the table below.

Service
a)
event

PR
No.

Service Service interval
type
b)

QI1

Every 5,000 km / 3,000 miles or 1 year .
b)

QI2
Oil change
service

Every 7,500 km / 4,500 miles or 1 year .
Fixed

QI3

b)

QI4
QI6

b)

Every 10,000 km / 6,000 miles or 1 year .
Every 15,000 km / 9,000 miles or 1 year .
Flexible

Inspection

According to service interval display.
According to service interval display.

Note the information on engine oil specifications according to VW standards ⇒ Engine oil .

Features of the flexible service
With the flexible service, you need to have an oil change service carried out only if your vehicle
requires one. To determine this point in time, individual operating conditions and personal driving
style are taken into account. An important part of the flexible service is the use of LongLife engine
oil instead of conventional engine oil.
Note the information on engine oil specifications according to VW standards ⇒ Engine oil .
If you do not wish to have the flexible service, you can opt for the fixed service instead.
However, a fixed service can affect your service costs. Your service advisor will be pleased to
advise you.

Service interval display
Scheduled services at Volkswagen are displayed in the service interval display in the instrument
cluster ⇒ Service interval display or in the Vehicle settings menu in the Infotainment system

⇒ Operation and display in the Infotainment system . The service interval display informs you about
the scheduled services which include an oil change and also about scheduled services which
include an inspection. When the respective service is due, additional work that is due can also be
carried out, e.g. changing brake fluid and spark plugs.

a)

b)

Information is stated for vehicles used under normal operating conditions.
Whichever comes first.

Information on operating conditions
The service intervals and service content are always for vehicles used under normal operating
conditions.
If the vehicle is operated under severe conditions, some work will have to be performed before the
next service is due or at shorter intervals than those specified.
Severe operating conditions are, for example:
• Fuels containing sulphur,
• Regular short trips,
• Long periods of engine idling (taxis for example),
• Operation in regions with high dust levels,
• Regular trailer towing ⇒ Trailer towing ,
• A high percentage of stop-and-go traffic, as is typical in city driving and
• Driving mainly in winter conditions.
This applies particularly to the following components:
• Dust and pollen filter
• Air filter
• Toothed belt
• Diesel particulate filter
• Engine oil
The service advisor at your qualified workshop will be pleased to advise you on whether your
vehicle requires more frequent work due to the conditions under which it is used.

WARNING
Inadequate servicing, no servicing at all, or failure to adhere to service intervals can result
in breakdowns, accidents or serious injury.
• Have your service work carried out by an authorised Volkswagen dealership or
workshop.

NOTICE
Volkswagen is not responsible for any vehicle damage caused by inadequate service work
or the lack of part availability.

Scope of service
The scope of service includes all maintenance work that is necessary in order to keep your vehicle
roadworthy (depending on the operating conditions and vehicle equipment, e.g. engine, gearbox or
service fluids). The maintenance work is divided into inspection work and servicing work. You can
find out what work is required in detail for your vehicle:
• From your Volkswagen dealership.
• From your qualified workshop.
• In the electronic repair and workshop information system erWin at https://erwin.volkswagen.de.

Inspection work
Electrics
• 12-volt vehicle battery: check and replace if necessary.
• Lighting: check.
• High-voltage components: check.
• Horn: check.
• Headlight setting: check.
• Service interval display: reset.
Engine/gearbox
• Exhaust system: check.
• Gearbox and final drive: check.
• Gas system: check.
• Poly V-belt: check.
• Cooling system: check.
• Engine and components in engine compartment: check.
• Engine oil level: check.
Running gear
• Swivel joints/track rods: check.
• Tyres: check.
• Brake system: check.
• Brake pads/discs: check.
• Brake fluid level: check.
• Boots: check.
• Coupling rod and stabiliser bearings: check.
• Pneumatic suspension: check.
• Breakdown set: check.
• Tyre pressure on all wheels: check.
• Power steering: check.
• Shock absorbers/coil springs: check.
Body
• Roof systems: check.
• Windscreen: check.
• Body: check for corrosion.
• Wiper blades: check.
• Window wiper and washer system: check.
• Door arresters: lubricate.
• Underbody: check.

• Water drains: check.
• Road test: perform.

Servicing work
In addition to the inspection work (depending on the operating conditions and vehicle equipment
such as engine, gearbox or service fluids), further servicing work must be performed on your
vehicle. The work dependent on either time and/or mileage.
• Additives: change/top up.
• Brake fluid: change.
• Diesel particulate filter: check.
• Natural gas tank and lines: change.
• Gearbox: change oil/filter.
• Gearbox mountings: change.
• Gas system filter: change.
• Final drive/differential: change oil.
• Diesel fuel filter: change/drain.
• Air filter: change.
• Engine: change oil/filter.
• Dust and pollen filter: change.
• Spark plugs: change.
• Toothed belt/toothed belt tensioning roller: check/change.
It is also possible to have servicing work carried out in between the scheduled service events

⇒ Fixed service or flexible service .
The scope of service is subject to change for technical reasons (continuous further development of
components). Your Volkswagen dealership or qualified workshop always has the latest information
about any changes.

Vehicle care
Notes on vehicle care
Regular and expert care helps to maintain the value of the vehicle.
Leaving stains, dirt and other deposits on the surface of vehicle components and cloth seat covers
for a long time can make it difficult to clean and treat them. Stains, dirt and deposits may become
impossible to remove, particularly if left for a long time.
For proper cleaning and care, Volkswagen recommends using Genuine care products that have
1)

been matched to your vehicle. Consult a qualified workshop if you have any specific questions or if
vehicle parts are not listed.

WARNING
Incorrect care and cleaning of vehicle parts can impair the safety features of the vehicle
and cause serious injury.
• Vehicle parts must be cleaned according to the manufacturer's instructions.
• Always use approved or recommended cleaning products.
• Do not use solvent-based cleaning products. Solvents can cause irreparable damage
to the airbag modules.
• Protect your hands and arms against parts with sharp edges, e.g. when cleaning the
underbody or the insides of the wheel housings.

WARNING
Dirty, misted or iced over windows reduce visibility and increase the risk of accidents and
severe injuries. This could impair the safety equipment of the vehicle.
• Only drive when you have a clear view through all windows.
• Do not treat the windscreen with water-repellent window coating agents. In
unfavourable conditions, they can cause increased dazzle.

WARNING
Car care products can be toxic and hazardous. Unsuitable care products and incorrect use
of care products can cause accidents, serious injuries, burns or poisoning.
• Care products must be kept in the original, sealed container only.
• Read the manufacturer's instructions.
• Never use empty food cans, bottles or other containers for storing care products.
• Keep children away from care products.
• The products can give off harmful fumes during use. They should therefore only be
used outside or in well-ventilated spaces.
• Never use fuel, turpentine, engine oil, nail varnish remover or other volatile fluids to
wash, clean or care for your vehicle. These substances are toxic and highly
inflammable.

NOTICE
Stains, dirt and other deposits containing aggressive and solvent-based ingredients attack
the material and may cause irreparable damage, even if only left for a short time.
• Stains, dirt and other deposits should always be removed as quickly as possible and
not allowed to dry in.
• Have stubborn stains removed by a qualified workshop.

1)

Suitable accessories are available from your Volkswagen dealership. Follow the usage

instructions on the packaging.

Washing the vehicle
Also wash the underside of the vehicle on a regular basis to remove road salt or seawater residue.

Automatic car washes
Always observe all the car wash operator's specifications, in particular if your vehicle features addon parts ⇒

.

• Preferably use car washes without brushes.
• Preclean the vehicle by rinsing with water.
• The steering column must not lock when driving through automatic car washes ⇒ Steering .
• Always switch off the Auto Hold function ⇒ Electronic parking brake , the wipers ⇒ Wipers and
the rain/light sensor before entering the car wash.
• Fold in the exterior mirrors.
• If your vehicle has decorative and protective films, do not select a wash program with hot wax.

High-pressure cleaners
Observe the manufacturer's information for the high-pressure cleaner. Never use rotating nozzles

⇒

.

• Only use water with a maximum temperature of +60°C (+140°F).
• Do not clean windows that are iced over or covered in snow with a high-pressure cleaner.
• Move the jet of water uniformly so that the nozzle is at least 50 cm away from the side windows
and other vehicle components.
• Do not point the water jet at the same location for too long. Instead, leave stubborn dirt to soak.
• If possible, do not direct the water jet at seals, e.g. side windows, decorative trim, tyres, rubber
hoses, insulation materials or any other sensitive components, e.g. door locks.
• Sensors, camera lenses, and decorative and protective films should be sprayed directly only for
brief periods of time.

Washing the car by hand
Washing the car by hand is always the more gentle way to clean it. However, there are also some
things to note for this ⇒

.

• Before washing the vehicle, soak the dirt with plenty of water and then rinse it off thoroughly.
• Clean the vehicle with a soft sponge, a wash mitt or a brush applying only light pressure. Start
with the roof and work from the top to the bottom.
• Rinse the sponge, wash mitt or brush thoroughly at regular short intervals.
• Clean the wheels, sill panels etc. last. Use a second sponge for this.
Use a shampoo for very stubborn dirt only.

Waxing
Waxing protects the paintwork. At the latest when water no longer clearly forms small drops and
runs off the paintwork when the vehicle is clean, you should re-wax the vehicle with a good wax
solution.
Even if a preservative wax is applied regularly in the automatic car wash, Volkswagen recommends
protecting the vehicle paintwork at least twice a year using Volkswagen Genuine hard wax (000 096 317 -).

Polishing
Polishing is only necessary if the paint has lost its shine, and the gloss cannot be brought back by
applying wax.

WARNING
After the car has been washed, the braking effect could set in later than normal and extend
the braking distance as the brake discs and brake pads will be wet, or iced up in winter.
• You can dry and de-ice the brakes by performing careful braking manoeuvres. Ensure
that you do not endanger any other road users or violate any legal regulations when
doing so.

NOTICE
Incorrectly washing the vehicle can cause serious damage to the vehicle.
• Always follow the instructions exactly.
• Never wash the vehicle in direct sunshine.
• Never aim a water jet directly at locks, doors or the boot lid in cold weather. The locks
and seals could freeze.

NOTICE
Painted parts and surfaces with a matt finish, unpainted plastic parts, headlight lenses and
tail light clusters can be damaged if the vehicle is not washed correctly.
• Use only brushless car washes for matt-painted surfaces.
• Do not use hard or abrasive brushes.

Wash the vehicle only in specially provided wash bays This prevents waste water
contaminated with oil, grease or fuel from entering the sewerage system.

Caring for and cleaning the vehicle exterior

Fig. 251 Between the engine compartment and the windscreen: plenum chamber (illustration).

Fig. 252 In the rear of the vehicle: rear view camera in the Volkswagen badge or in the number
plate lighting.

The following overview contains recommendations for cleaning and care of individual vehicle
components ⇒

.

Windows, glass surfaces: remove wax residue, e.g. from care products, using the Volkswagen
Genuine cleaning cloth - 000 096 166 A - or a suitable glass cleaner.
Use a hand brush to remove snow and ice. If you use a plastic scraper, move it in one direction
only.

Use the Volkswagen Genuine de-icing agent (- 000 096 322 -) to remove ice.
Wiper blades:⇒ Wiper blades .
Paintwork: always treat surfaces carefully in order to prevent damage to the paint coat. Use a
1)

clean, soft cloth and a mild soap solution or cleaning clay to remove any light dirt immediately, e.g.
deposits, insect residue, or cosmetics.
Repair minor paint damage with a touch-up pen. Refer to the vehicle data sticker for the paint code

⇒ Technical data . Consult a qualified workshop in the event of damage to surfaces with matt paint.
• Overflowing fuel or service fluids: clean immediately.
• Flash rust deposits: moisten deposits with a soap solution. Then remove any deposits with
cleaning clay.
• Corrosion: have removed by a qualified workshop.
• Water no longer forms beads on clean paint: preserve paintwork at least twice a year using
Volkswagen Genuine hard wax (- 000 096 317 -).
• No gloss in spite of preservation/paint unattractive: treat the vehicle with suitable polish after
cleaning to remove dirt and dust.
Plenum chamber, engine compartment: remove leaves and other loose objects with a vacuum
cleaner or by hand ⇒ Fig. 251 ⇒

. Cleaning of the engine compartment should always be

performed by a qualified workshop ⇒

.

Water that has entered the plenum chamber via a manual process (e.g. from a high-pressure
cleaner) can cause considerable damage to the vehicle.
Sensors, camera lenses: clean the area in front of the sensors or camera with a soft cloth and
solvent-free cleaning agent. Observe the installation locations ⇒ Vehicle overviews .
• Switch on the ignition.
• Move the selector lever to position R.
• Clean the camera lens.
Clean sensitive surfaces on the rain/light sensor and the camera window on the windscreen in the
same way as windows and glass surfaces (depending on vehicle equipment).
Remove snow with a brush. Do not use warm or hot water.
Use the Volkswagen Genuine de-icing agent (- 000 096 322 -) to remove ice.
Decorative films, protective films: remove soiling in the same way as for paint. Always use
Volkswagen Genuine plastic cleaner (- 000 096 314 -) for matt decorative films.
Treat the vehicle with liquid hard wax every three months after washing and removing dust. Only
use clean, soft microfibre clothes to apply it. Do not use hot wax, also not in car washes!
• Stubborn dirt: remove carefully using white spirits, and then rinse using warm water.
Trim parts, trim strips, exhaust pipes made of chrome, aluminium or stainless steel: clean
1)

only in a dust-free environment using a clean, soft cloth and a mild soap solution .
Chrome parts can be protected using Volkswagen Genuine hard wax (- 000 096 317 -).
Anodised surfaces: do not use chrome cleaning products.
1)

Headlights, tail light clusters: use a soft sponge soaked with a mild soap solution . Do not use
any cleaning agents that contain alcohol or solvents.
• Stubborn dirt: remove with Volkswagen Genuine chrome and aluminium care product (000 096 319 D -).
Wheels: remove dirt and gritting salt deposits with plenty of water.
Alloy wheels: treat dirty aluminium wheels with Volkswagen Genuine wheel cleaner (- 000 096 304
-). Volkswagen recommends treating the wheel rims with Volkswagen Genuine hard wax (000 096 317 -) every three months.
• Damage protective paint coating: repair immediately with a touch-up pen. Go to a qualified
workshop if necessary.
• Brake dust: use Volkswagen Genuine wheel rim cleaner (- 000 096 304 -).
Door lock cylinders: Volkswagen recommends using Volkswagen Genuine de-icing agent (000 096 322 -) for de-icing. Do not use door lock de-icers containing substances that dissolve
grease.

WARNING
The engine compartment of any motor vehicle is a hazardous area. All work in the engine
compartment carries the risk of injury, scalding, accidents and fire.
• Before carrying out any work, ensure that you are familiar with the requisite
procedures and general safety regulations ⇒ In the engine compartment .
• Volkswagen recommends having the work carried out by a qualified workshop.

NOTICE
Incorrect cleaning and care may cause vehicle damage.
• Always heed the instructions precisely.
• Do not use any excessively harsh, abrasive cleaning products.

NOTICE
The drains of the plenum chamber may become blocked by leaves and dirt. Water that
does not drain away can enter the vehicle interior.
• Have the area under the perforated cover cleaned by a qualified workshop.

The durability and colourfastness of decorative and protective films can be affected by
environmental influences such as direct sunlight, moisture, air pollution, stone impact etc.
Decorative films may show signs of wear or ageing after about one to three years, protective films
after about two to three years. In very warm environments, decorative films may fade slightly after
one year and protective films after two.
1)

Mild soap solution: a maximum of two tablespoons of neutral soap diluted in one litre of water.

Vehicle interior care and cleaning
The following overview contains recommendations for cleaning and care of individual vehicle
components ⇒

.

Windows: clean with a glass cleaner, then wipe dry with a clean chamois leather or with a lint-free
cloth.
Textiles, microfibre cloth, artificial leather: remove any dirt with Volkswagen Genuine interior
cleaning agent (- 000 096 301 -). Never treat materials with leather care agents, solvents, wax
polish, shoe cream, stain removers or similar substances.
• Dirt particles adhering to surfaces: remove with a vacuum cleaner on a regular basis so that the
material is not permanently damaged by abrasion.
• Grease stains, e.g. oil: use Volkswagen Genuine interior cleaning agent (- 000 096 301 -). Dab
off dissolved grease and colour particles with an absorbent cloth and then treat with water if
necessary.
• Special soiling, e.g. ballpoint pen, nail varnish: use Volkswagen Genuine interior cleaning agent
1)

(- 000 096 301 -) and then treat afterwards with a mild soap solution if necessary.
1)

Natural leather: remove fresh soiling with a cotton cloth and mild soap solution . Do not allow
fluids to seep into the seams.
Treat any dried spots with Volkswagen Genuine leather cleaner (- 000 096 323 -).
Regularly and each time after having finished cleaning, apply care cream with light protection and
impregnating properties. Use a special coloured leather cream if necessary. If the vehicle is parked
outdoors for long periods, you should cover the leather to protect it from direct sunlight.
Never treat leather with solvents, wax polish, shoe cream, stain removers or similar.
• Grease-based soiling, e.g. oil: remove fresh stains with an absorbent cloth.
• Special soiling, e.g. ballpoint pen, nail varnish and dried stains: treat with Volkswagen Genuine
leather cleaner (- 000 096 323 -).
Plastic parts: use a soft, moist cloth.
1)

Remove stubborn stains with a soft cloth and a mild soap solution . If necessary, use a solvent-free
plastic cleaning agent, e.g. Volkswagen Genuine plastic cleaner (- 000 096 314 -).
Trim parts, trim strips made of chrome, aluminium or stainless steel: clean in a dust-free
1)

environment using a clean, soft cloth and a mild soap solution .
Anodised surfaces: do not use chrome cleaning products.
Controls: remove coarse dirt and other dirt that is difficult to reach using a soft brush. Then use a
1)

clean, soft cloth and a mild soap solution . Do not allow liquids to come into contact with control
elements.

Displays: use a Volkswagen Genuine cleaning cloth (- 000 096 166 A -) with a little water, a
suitable glass cleaner or LCD cleaner. Do not clean displays with a dry cloth.
Rubber seals: clean with a soft, lint-free cloth and plenty of water. Treat with Volkswagen Genuine
rubber care agent (- 000 096 310 -) on a regular basis.
Seat belts: carefully pull the seat belt right out and leave it out ⇒

. Remove large particles of dirt

with a soft brush. Clean the seat belt with a mild soap solution. Leave the belt fabric to dry
completely and then allow it to roll up.
1)

Wooden trims: clean with a soft cloth and some mild soap solution .

Cleaning upholstery fabrics
If clothing that is not sufficiently colour-fast, e.g. denim, leaves stains on the seat cushion, this does
not a defect in the cover fabric. The seat padding may contain components for the airbag system
and electrical connections. Seat padding that is damaged, incorrectly cleaned or treated, or that
becomes wet, may cause damage to the vehicle electrical system or trigger a fault in the airbag
system ⇒

.

Depending on the equipment, seat cushions with seat heating feature electrical components and
connectors that may be damaged in the event of incorrect cleaning or treatment ⇒

. This can

also result in damage to other parts of the vehicle electrics.
• Do not use high-pressure cleaners, steam cleaners or coolant spray.
• Do not switch on the seat heating to dry the seats.
• Do not use washing paste or fine detergent solutions.
• Avoid getting the seat wet.
• In the event of uncertainty, contact a Volkswagen dealership.

WARNING
Failure to clean the parts properly can cause damage to the seat belts, the fastenings and
the belt retractor.
• Never use chemical cleaning agents on the seat belts or their components. The seat
belts must also not come into contact with corrosive fluids, solvents or sharp objects.
• Dry the cleaned seat belt fully before allowing it to retract.
• Avoid allowing foreign bodies or liquids to enter the slot for the seat belt buckle.
• Never try to repair, modify or remove the seat belts yourself.

NOTICE
Incorrect cleaning and care may cause vehicle damage.
• Sharp objects, such as zips, rivets on clothing or belts may damage surfaces. Open
Velcro fasteners can also cause damage.
• Do not use a steam cleaner, brushes or hard sponges etc. for cleaning under any
circumstances.
• To avoid damage, stubborn stains should be removed by a specialist cleaning
company.

1)

Mild soap solution: a maximum of two tablespoons of neutral soap diluted in one litre of water.

Accessories, modifications, repairs and renewal of
parts
Accessories and parts
Volkswagen recommends that you seek advice from a Volkswagen dealership before purchasing
accessories, replacement parts or service fluids, for example if the vehicle is to be retrofitted with
accessories or if parts have to be renewed. Volkswagen dealerships can recommend accessories,
parts and service fluids suitable for your requirements. They can also answer any questions you
might have regarding official regulations.
Volkswagen recommends you use only approved Volkswagen accessories and Volkswagen
®

Genuine Parts . These parts and accessories have been specially tested by Volkswagen for
suitability, reliability and safety. And Volkswagen dealerships are qualified to install them correctly.
Although the market is constantly scrutinised, Volkswagen cannot assume responsibility for the
reliability, safety and suitability of products Volkswagen has not approved. Volkswagen can
therefore assume no responsibility for these parts, even if they have been approved by an official
testing agency or are covered by an official approval certificate.
Any retro-fitted equipment which has a direct effect on the control of the vehicle must be
approved by Volkswagen for use in your vehicle and bear the e mark (the European Union's

authorization symbol). These devices include cruise control systems or an electronically controlled
suspension.
Any additional electrical components fitted that do not serve to control the vehicle itself must
bear the

mark (manufacturer conformity declaration in the European Union). Such devices

include refrigerator boxes, laptops and ventilator fans.

WARNING
Incorrectly performed repairs or modifications to your vehicle can impair the effectiveness
of the airbags, cause malfunctions, accidents and fatal injury.
• Never secure or mount objects such as drink holders or telephone holders either on or
next to the airbag covers or within the deployment zones of the airbag modules.
• Objects either on or next to the airbag module covers or are in the deployment zone of
the airbags can cause serious or even fatal injuries should the airbags be activated.

Repairs and technical modifications
Repairs and technical modifications must always be carried out according to Volkswagen
specifications⇒

.

Unauthorised modifications to the electronic components or software in the vehicle may cause
malfunctions. As the electronic components are linked together in networks, these faults may
indirectly affect the working of other systems. This can seriously impair safety, lead to excessive
wear of components, and also invalidate the type approval for the vehicle.
The Volkswagen dealership cannot be held liable for any damage caused by technical
modifications and/or work performed incorrectly.
The Volkswagen dealership is not responsible for damage caused by technical modifications and/or
work performed incorrectly. Such damage is not covered by the Volkswagen guarantee.
Volkswagen recommends that all repairs and technical modifications be performed by an
®

authorised Volkswagen workshop using Volkswagen Genuine Parts .

Volkswagen repair information
Volkswagen Service information and official Volkswagen repair information can be purchased for a
fee.
Customers in Europe, Asia, Australia, Africa, Central and South America: please contact a
Volkswagen dealership or qualified workshop or register on the online portal erWin (electronic
repair and workshop information):
https://erwin.volkswagen.de
erWin is available in numerous languages.

Vehicles with special auxiliary equipment or body parts
The manufacturer of these components must ensure that these parts (fittings) adhere to the
stipulated environmental laws and regulations, particularly the EU directive 2000/53/EC concerning
end-of-life vehicles and EU directive 2003/11/EC concerning the restriction on the marketing and
use of certain dangerous substances and preparations.
The vehicle owner should keep all assembly documentation for these auxiliary fittings, and pass it
on to any scrapping company later engaged. This is to facilitate environmentally responsible
disposal for all vehicles, including refitted vehicles.

Windscreen repairs
To function properly, some items of equipment require an electrical or electronic module, which is
located on the inside of the windscreen near the interior mirror. If the windscreen has been
damaged in the viewing field of the electrical or electronic module, e.g. by stone impact, the
windscreen must be replaced. Repairing the crack can lead to malfunctions or functional faults in
the equipment.
After changing the windscreen, the camera and sensors must be set up and calibrated by a
qualified workshop.

Impairment or damage to sensors and cameras
Incorrect repairs, retrofit structural modifications to the vehicle, e.g. lowering the body, add-on parts
on the vehicle or trailer ⇒ Trailer towing , or changes to the trim may lead to the sensors or
cameras being disrupted or damaged. This can also be caused by collisions, e.g. when parking.
Failure to observe this may impair important functions (driver assist systems) and damage the
vehicle.
The area in front of and around the sensors and cameras must not be covered by stickers,
additional headlights, trim frames for number plates or similar.

Repairs and structural modifications should be carried out by a qualified workshop. Volkswagen
recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.
• Repainting and paint touch-ups in the area around the sensors may impair the function of the
system in question.
• As the Volkswagen badge influences the view of the radar sensor in the front area, drive the
vehicle only with the original Volkswagen badge.

Engine and transmission guard
An engine and transmission guard can reduce the risk of damage to the underside of the vehicle
and to the engine oil sump.
Depending on where the vehicle is used, it may be a good idea to have an engine and transmission
guard installed, e.g. if the vehicle will be driven over kerbs, on driveways or on unsurfaced roads. If
you wish to have one fitted, Volkswagen recommends contacting your Volkswagen dealership.

WARNING
Incorrect repairs and modifications can cause malfunctions and damage to the vehicle
and impair the effectiveness of the driver assist systems. This can result in accidents and
severe injuries.
• Repairs and modifications to your vehicle should be carried out only by a qualified
workshop.

WARNING
Unsuitable spare parts and accessories, incorrectly carried out work, modifications and
repairs can lead to damage to the vehicle and cause accidents and serious injuries.
• Volkswagen strongly recommends you use only approved Volkswagen accessories
®

and Volkswagen Genuine Parts . These parts and accessories have been specially
tested by Volkswagen for suitability, reliability and safety.
• Repairs and modifications to your vehicle should only be carried out by a qualified
workshop. Qualified workshops have the necessary tools, diagnostic equipment, repair
information and qualified personnel.
• Never fit parts to your vehicle that are in any way different from the factory-fitted parts.
• Never secure or mount objects such as drink holders or telephone holders either on or
next to the airbag covers or within the deployment zones of the airbag modules.
• Only use rim/tyre combinations which have been approved by Volkswagen for your
vehicle type.

Repairs and faults in the airbag system
Repairs and technical modifications must always be carried out according to Volkswagen
specifications⇒

.

Modifications and repairs to the front bumper, the doors, the front seats, the headliner, or the
bodywork should be carried out by a qualified workshop. System components and airbag system
sensors might be fitted on these vehicle components.
If you work on the airbag system or remove and install parts of the system when performing other
repair work, parts of the airbag system may be damaged. The consequence may be that, in the
event of an accident, the airbag inflates incorrectly or does not inflate at all.
Regulations must be observed to ensure that the effectiveness of the airbags is not reduced and
that removed parts do not cause any injuries or environmental pollution. Qualified workshops are
familiar with these requirements.
Any modifications to the vehicle's suspension could prevent the airbag system from working
properly during a collision. For example, using tyre/rim combinations that have not been approved
by Volkswagen, lowering the vehicle, making modifications to the suspension rate including work on
the springs, struts and shock absorbers could change the forces that are measured by the airbag
sensors and sent to the electronic control unit. Some changes to the suspension could cause the
forces measured by the sensors to increase, for example. This can lead to the airbag system being
triggered in collision scenarios where it normally would not be triggered if modifications to the
suspension had not been made. Other modifications can cause the forces measured by the
sensors to decrease, therefore preventing the airbag system from being triggered when it should
have been.

WARNING
Incorrect repairs and modifications can cause malfunctions and damage to the vehicle
and impair the effectiveness of the airbag system. This can result in accidents and serious
or even fatal injuries.
• Repairs and modifications to your vehicle should only be carried out by a qualified
workshop.
• Airbag modules cannot be repaired. They must be replaced.
• Never use recycled airbag components or components that have been taken from endof-life vehicles in your vehicle.

WARNING
Modifications to the vehicle's suspension, including the use of unsuitable tyre/rim
combinations, can cause the airbag system to work differently and increase the risk of
serious or fatal injuries in the event of an accident.
• Never install any components in the suspension system that do not have the same
characteristics as the original factory-fitted components.
• Never use tyre/rim combinations that have not been approved by Volkswagen.

Mobile communication in the vehicle
Electromagnetic radiation
If a mobile telephone or radio device is used without being connected to the external aerial, the
electromagnetic radiation will not be optimally directed to the outside of the vehicle. Increased
levels of radiation in the vehicle interior can occur in particular in the event of poor reception, e.g. in
rural areas. This could constitute a health hazard ⇒

.

Depending on the equipment, you may be able to use a suitable mobile phone interface to connect
the mobile telephone to the external aerial ⇒BookletInfotainment system,. The connection quality is
improved and the range of the mobile communication device is increased.

Using a telephone
Many countries require a hands-free system to be used when using a telephone inside the vehicle,
e.g. via a Bluetooth

®

connection. Before use, secure the mobile telephone to a suitable bracket ⇒

or stow it in a storage compartment so that it cannot slip around, e.g. in the centre console.
Use a compatible mobile telephone if the mobile phone interface uses the remote SIM Access
Profile (rSAP) technology.

Two-way radios
Observe legal regulations and the manufacturer's operating instructions for operation of two-way
radios. Approval is required for retrofitting two-way radio systems.
Ask your Volkswagen dealership for further information on installation of two-way radio systems.

WARNING
Mobile telephones which are loosely placed in the vehicle or not properly secured could
be flung through the vehicle interior and cause injuries during a sudden driving or braking
manoeuvre, or in the event of an accident.
• Secure any mobile telephones and accessories located beyond the deployment zone of
the airbags, or stow them safely.

WARNING
If mobile telephones or two-way radios that are not connected to an external aerial are
used, electromagnetic radiation in the vehicle could exceed limit values and thus be a
health hazard for drivers and other vehicle occupants. This also applies to external aerials
which have not been correctly installed.
• Keep a distance of at least 20 cm between a device's aerial and an active medical
implant, e.g. a pacemaker.
• Do not carry an operational device close to or directly above an active medical implant,
e.g. in a breast pocket.
• Switch off the device immediately if you suspect it may be interfering with an active
medical implant or any other medical device.

Customer information

Warranty and LongLife mobility guarantee
Volkswagen dealership warranty
Volkswagen dealerships guarantee that all vehicles purchased from them are free of faults.
Volkswagen dealerships provide a warranty that new Volkswagen vehicles are free of faults
Details of warranty conditions and the warranty periods can be found in your sales contract.
Please ask your Volkswagen dealership for further information.
You are advised that natural wear and damage caused by abnormally rough or improper use, or
unauthorised modifications are not covered by this warranty.
If your vehicle does break down, please contact your nearest available Volkswagen dealership.

Warranty for the paintwork and body
Volkswagen dealerships provide a warranty on the paintwork and body of all vehicles purchased
from them.
In addition to the warranty conditions for new Volkswagen vehicles (as detailed in the purchase
contract), the Volkswagen dealership guarantees that the body of any vehicles it sells will not be
affected by paint defects or corrosion perforation for a specified period:
• a 3-year warranty on paint defects and
• a 12-year corrosion perforation warranty. Here, corrosion perforation refers to rust forming on
the inside (cavity) of the body and causing holes in the sheet metal.
In the unlikely event that this type of damage occurs, it will be repaired free of charge for parts and
labour by any Volkswagen dealership.
Warranty claims will not be accepted in the following circumstances:
• If damage is caused by external influence or insufficient care.
• Defects on the body or paintwork are not repaired promptly according to manufacturer
specifications.
• The cause of corrosion perforation is related to body repairs not being carried out according to
manufacturer specifications.
If the body is repaired or painted, your Volkswagen dealership will confirm your warranty against
corrosion perforation for the repaired area.

LongLife mobility guarantee
With the delivery of your new vehicle you have acquired the comprehensive LongLife mobility
guarantee (available in many European countries), which will be renewed after every inspection.
In many European markets, your new vehicle includes the comprehensive LongLife mobility
guarantee which will be renewed after every inspection.
The selling Volkswagen dealership will issue a comprehensive LongLife mobility guarantee for
every new vehicle which applies from the time of delivery until the first due inspection. If you
purchase your new vehicle directly from Volkswagen AG, Volkswagen AG will issue the LongLife
mobility guarantee from the time of delivery until the first due inspection.
Your Volkswagen service partner will extend the LongLife mobility guarantee until the following
inspection when the due inspection is carried out at that workshop. The service costs include the
entire guarantee package.
The comprehensive LongLife mobility guarantee includes the following services:
1)

If your vehicle can no longer be driven due to a technical defect , corresponding assistance will be
provided in the case of breakdown or accident. The LongLife mobility guarantee provides with you
protection and mobility.
The inspection is not only about car maintenance - it also ensures that your car remains roadworthy
and in perfect working order. For this reason, servicing should be carried out regularly in
accordance with the manufacturer's service schedule.
Your entitlement to the LongLife mobility guarantee is documented in the digital service schedule
each time your car is serviced. A full service history shows that your car has been professionally
maintained and cared for.
1)

A vehicle which can no longer be driven is a vehicle which cannot reach a workshop under its

own power.

Data storage and services
Your vehicle is fitted with electronic control units. Some of these are required to make sure your
vehicle remains safe while others provide support while driving (driver assist systems).
Furthermore, your vehicle is equipped with convenience and Infotainment functions, which are also
made possible using electronic control units.
Electronic control units contain data memories that can store information regarding the vehicle
status, component load levels, maintenance requirements, technical events and faults on a
temporary or permanent basis. This information generally documents the status of a component, a
module, a system or the environment, e.g.:
• Operating states of system components, e.g. filling levels, tyre pressure, battery status.
• Status messages from the vehicle or its individual components, e.g. wheel revolutions or speed,
deceleration, lateral acceleration, display of fastened seat belts.
• Faults or malfunctions in important system components, e.g. lights, brakes.
• Information on events which damaged the vehicle.
• System reactions to specific driving situations, triggering of an airbag, intervention the stability
control systems.
• Ambient conditions, e.g. temperature, rain.
As well as performing the actual control unit functions, these data are also used to detect and
rectify faults and help Volkswagen to improve vehicle functions. The majority of these data are
temporary are processed only within the vehicle itself. Only a very small amount of data is stored in
the event memories or possibly on the vehicle key.

Reading out the vehicle's event memory
There is a diagnostic interface in the vehicle interior for reading out the event memories (on-board
diagnostic system) ⇒

.

If you have service work performed on your vehicle, the technical data can be read out of the
vehicle together with the vehicle identification number by service employees, e.g. workshops, or
third parties such as breakdown services. Service work includes, for example, repairs,
maintenance, warranty work or quality assurance measures. The service workshop or third party
collects, processes and uses the data. The data document the vehicle's technical status, help in
troubleshooting and in improving quality and may be sent to Volkswagen in some cases.
Furthermore, the manufacturer is subject to legal product safety requirements. To make sure it
complies with these requirements, the manufacturer requires technical data from the vehicles.
Event memories in the vehicle can be reset by a service workshop as part of repair or service work.
The event memory should only be read and reset by a qualified workshop. Additional information on
the stored data is available from qualified workshops.
After a fault has been rectified, the information in the memory pertaining to the fault is deleted.
Other memory content is overwritten on an ongoing basis.

Event data recorder
This vehicle is equipped with an event data recorder. The main task of an event data recorder is to
record data in particular accident scenarios or accident-like situations, e.g. in the event of airbags
being triggered or a collision with an obstacle on the road. These data help in analysis of how a
vehicle system behaved in these situations. The event data recorder records data relating to driving
dynamics and the restraint system for a short period of 10 s or less. This information includes, for
example:
• how various systems in your vehicle have functioned.
• whether the seat belts of the driver and front passenger were fastened.
• the extent to which the driver pressed the brake or accelerator pedal.
• how fast the vehicle was travelling.
These data help to obtain a better understanding of the circumstances in the situations where
accidents and injuries have occurred.
Data from driver assist systems are also recorded. In addition to information about whether the
systems were switched on or off, available only to a restricted extent or inactive, it is also possible
to determine whether these functions steered, accelerated or braked the vehicle in the abovedescribed situations. Depending on the vehicle equipment, these systems include the following:
• Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC).
• Lane keeping system (Lane Assist).
• Park Assist.
• Park Distance Control.
• Emergency braking functions (Front Assist).
The data of the event data recorder are recorded only if a particular accident-like situation occurs.
No recordings occur under normal driving conditions. Audio or video data from the vehicle interior
or vehicle surroundings are not stored. Personal data such as name, gender age or accident
location are also not recorded at any time. However, third parties such as law enforcement
agencies can use corresponding means to link the content of the event data recorder with other
sources of data and thus establish a reference to persons as part of an accident investigation.

Special equipment, access to the legally prescribed diagnostic interface (on-board diagnostics) and
switched-on ignition are required in order to read data out of the event data recorder.
Volkswagen will not access, read out or process data from the event data recorder unless the
vehicle owner (or lessee in the case of leasing) grants their permission. Exceptions to this are
contractual or legal provisions.
Due to its legal product monitoring obligations, Volkswagen is entitled to use the data for field
monitoring and also for research purposes and quality improvements. For research purposes,
Volkswagen makes the data available to third parties in anonymous form, in other words without
any reference to the individual vehicle, vehicle owner or lessee.

Reprogramming control units
All data for the control of components are stored in the control units. Some convenience functions,
such as lane change flash, single door unlocking and displays, can be reprogrammed using special
workshop equipment. If the convenience functions are reprogrammed, the descriptions in your
vehicle wallet will no longer match the original functions. Volkswagen recommends having any
reprogramming entered into the digital service schedule by a Volkswagen dealership or qualified
workshop.
Information about possible reprogramming can be obtained from the Volkswagen dealership.

Convenience and Infotainment functions
Depending on the equipment selected, you can store your own data in the vehicle's Infotainment
functions. This includes, for example:
• Media files for playing music, films or photos in the Infotainment system.
• Address book data for use with a hands-free system or navigation system.
• Entered navigation destinations.
• Data on the use of online services.
These data can be stored locally in the vehicle or located on a device that you have connected to
the vehicle, e.g. mobile device, USB stick or MP3 player. If these data are stored in the vehicle, you
can delete them at any time. These data are transmitted to third parties only at your request, in
particular in relation to the use of online services and in accordance with your personal settings.
You can store convenience settings (personalisation) in the vehicle and change them at any time.
Depending on the equipment in the vehicle, this includes, for example:
• Seat position settings.
• Running gear and air conditioning system settings.
• Personalised settings such as mirror adjustment or background lighting.

Integration of mobile devices
If your vehicle contains the necessary equipment, you can connect your mobile device or any other
mobile end device to your vehicle so that you can control this device via the controls integrated in
the vehicle when the corresponding functions are available. For example, images and sounds from
the mobile device can be output through the Infotainment system. At the same time, certain
information is sent to your mobile device. This includes location data and further general vehicle
information, depending on the type of integration. For more details, refer to the information about
display of apps in the Infotainment system ⇒ Mobile online services .
This enables selected apps on the mobile device to be used in the vehicle, e.g. navigation or music
player. The mobile device and vehicle do not interact in any other ways than those described here,
in particular the device does not actively access vehicle data. The type of further data processing
depends on the app provider. The settings that you can make here depend on the app in question
and the operating system on your mobile device.

Third party providers
If your vehicle is equipped with a connection to a mobile network, your vehicle will be able to
exchange data with other systems. The vehicle can be connected to a mobile network using a
transmitter and receiver unit in the vehicle or using your own mobile device. This mobile network
connection enables you to use online functions. This includes online services and apps provided by
Volkswagen or other third-party providers.

Manufacturer services
In the case of online services provided by Volkswagen, the respective functions are described by
Volkswagen in a suitable location, e.g. in a separate service description or on a website ⇒ Mobile
online services along with the relevant data protection policies. Personal data may be required to
provide online services. For this, data are exchanged over a secure connection, e.g. using the
designated IT systems of the manufacturer. Any collection, processing and use of personal data
that goes beyond the provision of the service takes place exclusively according to legal regulations,
contractual agreements or the necessary permission.
You can activate and deactivate the services and functions, some of which are subject to a fee, and
in some cases also disable the vehicle's entire data connection. This does not apply to any
functions and services required by law, e.g. emergency call systems.

Third-party services
If you are able to use online services provided by a party other than the manufacturer, these
services are the sole responsibility of the provider in question and are subject to this provider's data
protection policy and terms and conditions of use. Volkswagen has no influence over the content
exchanged in these services.
Please refer to the provider in question for information about the type, scope and purpose of the
collection and use of personal data related to third-party services.

WARNING
Incorrect use of the diagnostic interface can cause malfunctions, which can result in
accidents and serious injuries.
• Never read the event memory using the diagnostic interface yourself.
• The event memory should only be read out via the diagnostic interface by a qualified
workshop. Volkswagen recommends using a Volkswagen dealership for this purpose.

Please note the further information on Volkswagen Car-Net services ⇒ Mobile online
services .

Information stickers and plates
Safety certificates, stickers and plates showing important vehicle operation information are factoryfitted in the engine compartment and on certain vehicle parts, such as the tank flap, front passenger
sun visor, driver door pillar or under/on the luggage compartment floor.
• Never remove or damage the safety certificates, stickers and plates. They must remain legible
at all times.
• If vehicle parts bearing safety certificates, stickers or plates are removed from the vehicle,
replacement safety certificates, stickers or plates with the same information must be applied
properly to the new parts by the qualified workshop.

Safety certificate
There is a safety certificate on the door pillar of the driver door which states that all necessary
safety standards and specifications from the transport safety authorities of the particular country
were met at the time of production. The month and year of production and the chassis number may
also be listed. Observe notes in the owner's manual.

WARNING
Handling the vehicle incorrectly will increase the risk of accident and injuries.
• Comply with legal regulations.
• Observe the owner's manual.

NOTICE
Handling the vehicle incorrectly could lead to the vehicle becoming damaged.
• Comply with legal regulations.
• Carry out service jobs in accordance with the specifications.

Fluids in the air conditioning system
Refrigerant in the air conditioning system
The sticker in the engine compartment contains information regarding the type and quantity of
refrigerant used in the vehicle's air conditioning system. The sticker is located at the front of the
engine compartment, close to the coolant filler neck.

Symbol Description
Warning: the air conditioning system must be serviced by trained specialists.
Type of refrigerant.
Type of lubricating oil.
See workshop information (available only for Volkswagen dealerships).
The air conditioning system must be serviced by trained specialists.
Flammable refrigerant.
Make sure that all components are disposed of correctly. Never install components
that have been taken from old vehicles or recycling facilities.

Lubricant in the air conditioning system
The air conditioning system contains up to 210 ml of lubricating oil. The exact specification and
information about the lubricating oil quantity in the air conditioning system are available from the
following website:
https://erwin.volkswagen.de

WARNING
In order to guarantee safe and hazard-free operation, always have the air conditioning
system serviced by trained specialists.

NOTICE
• Never repair the evaporator in the air conditioning system using components taken
from older vehicles or recycling facilities.
• Never repair the evaporator in the air conditioning system with used evaporators taken
from older vehicles or recycling facilities.

Radio reception and aerials
In vehicles with a factory-fitted Infotainment system, the aerial for radio reception can be installed at
various locations in the vehicle:
• On the inside of the rear window, together with the rear window heating.
• On the inside of the rear side windows.
• On the inside of the windscreen.
• On the roof of the vehicle.
Aerials on the interior of the windows can be identified by thin wires.

NOTICE
Aerials located on the inside of the windows can be damaged by corrosive or acidic
detergents, any other chemicals or if hard objects chafe against the window. Never apply
stickers over the window aerials and never clean the aerials with corrosive or acidic
detergents or any other chemicals.

NOTICE
When retrofitting an Infotainment system, ensure that the vehicle's standard integral aerial
amplifier is compatible or else use an additional aerial adapter. Otherwise the aerial
amplifier could be subjected to overvoltage damage.

Component protection
Some electronic components and
control units are fitted with component
protection as standard, e.g. the
Infotainment system.
Component protection was developed as a protective mechanism in order to:
• Prevent any factory-fitted parts delivered with a vehicle from functioning fully if they have been
installed into other vehicles (e.g. after theft),
• Prevent full function of components outside of the vehicle,
• Allow for legitimate installation or exchange of parts and control units by a professional in the
case of service.

Where
Instrument cluster
display

Infotainment system
display

What appears:

Remedy

SAFE CP

Go to a qualified workshop.

Component theft protection:

Switch on the ignition.

the Infotainment system is not If this does not deactivate component
fully available at present.
protection, seek professional
Switch on the ignition.

assistance.

Information in accordance with the EU Chemicals Regulation
REACH
In accordance with the European regulations on chemicals, known as REACH, Volkswagen would
like to inform you about the substances that may be found in your vehicle.
You can access this information online using your vehicle identification number ⇒ Technical data :
https://reachinfo.volkswagen.com

Declaration of conformity
The individual manufacturer declares herewith that the following products conform, at the time of
vehicle production, with the basic requirements and other relevant laws and regulations, including
FCC Part 15.19, FCC Part 15.21 and RSS-Gen Issue 1:

Radio-based equipment
• Electronic immobiliser.
• Vehicle key.
• Keyless Access locking and starting system.
• Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC).
• Area monitoring system (Front Assist) including City Emergency Brake.
• Lane change system (Side Assist)
• Remote control for the auxiliary heater ⇒ Auxiliary heater and ventilation .
• Trailer manoeuvring system (Trailer Assist) ⇒ Trailer Assist

Electrical equipment
• 12-volt socket.
• 230-volt Euro socket, 115-volt socket, 100-volt socket.

Recycling and scrapping end-of-life vehicles
Recycling end-of-life vehicles
Volkswagen has already made provision for you to recycle your vehicle in an environmentally
responsible manner. The recycling system operating in many European countries will take back
your vehicle at the end of its useful life. Once the vehicle has been recycled, a certificate of
destruction will be issued to show that the vehicle has been disposed of correctly.
End-of-life vehicles are recycled free of charge, provided that national legislation is complied with.
Further information on the recycling of end-of-life vehicles can be found at a Volkswagen
dealership.

Scrapping
The relevant safety requirements must be observed when the vehicle or components of the airbag
and the belt tensioners are scrapped. Qualified workshops are familiar with these requirements.

Information about vehicles with N1 approval (light commercial
vehicle)
Please observe the following information for vehicles used to transport goods with a maximum
permitted weight of up to 3.5 t (N1 approval in Europe):

Variants and number of seats
N1 vehicles based on a Volkswagen passenger car models are available in different versions. The
number of seats may be restricted to two or four.
Vehicles with two seats: there is no floor covering in the rear of the vehicle interior because there is
no rear bench seat ⇒

.

Vehicles with four seats: the centre seat on the rear bench seat cannot be used⇒

.

Safe transport of children
Like in vehicles with passenger car approval (M1), approved child restraint systems can be used on
the seats ⇒ Safe transport of children .

Towing a trailer
If the vehicle is approved for towing a trailer, observe any local regulations for driving with a trailer
and using a towing bracket.

If the vehicle exceeds the permitted gross weight or axle load for the rear axle, a speed of 80 km/h
must not be exceeded when towing a trailer. This also applies to countries where higher speeds are
permitted. Always obey speed limits. In some areas speed limits for vehicles towing trailers are
lower than for vehicles without trailers.
Any permitted excess loads for the vehicle are entered in the vehicle documents. If no permitted
excess load is entered, the permitted driving speed limit is 100 km/h taking into account countryspecific legislation.

Technical data
Refer to the vehicle documents for the technical data.

WARNING
Danger of injuries and electric shock from exposed cables.
• Have the luggage compartment completed at the latest after delivery so that the cables
in the rear area of the vehicle are covered during use of the vehicle.

WARNING
Danger of serious injury due to incorrect transport of persons.
• Never transport a person or child in the middle of the rear bench seat.
• The lack of restraint systems such as seat belt and head restraint can result in serious
or fatal injury in the event of an accident.

WARNING
Danger of serious and fatal injury.
• Do not transport people in the luggage compartment.
• Observe the safety instructions and information on the luggage compartment and
transporting items ⇒ Transporting .

Technical data

Information on technical data
Unless otherwise indicated or listed separately, the technical data for the basic model apply.
Optional equipment, different vehicle equipment, special vehicles and country-specific vehicle
equipment levels can result in different values. All data in the official vehicle documents take
precedence over these data.
Observe the instructions and information relating to vehicles with N1 approval ⇒ Information about
vehicles with N1 approval (light commercial vehicle) .

Engine
The vehicle data sticker or the vehicle registration documents show which engine is installed in your
vehicle.

Weight
The values for the kerb weight in the following tables apply to the road-ready vehicle with driver
(75 kg), service fluids including fuel tank carrying 90% of its capacity and, if applicable, tool kit and
spare tyre ⇒

. Additional equipment and retrofitted accessories increase the kerb weight stated

and reduce the maximum permitted load accordingly.
The load comprises the weights of the following:
• Vehicle occupants
• All luggage
• Roof load including the mounts or roof bars and the load carrier system
• Drawbar load when towing a trailer ⇒ Trailer towing .

Performance figures
For reasons of vehicle registration and vehicle taxation, the power output and performance of some
engines may vary in some countries from the information given in this booklet.
In certain vehicles with heavy duty suspension, the engine could be governed to provide a
maximum speed of 210 km/h.

When the performance figures were measured, the vehicle was not fitted with any equipment that
could reduce performance, e.g. a roof carrier or mud flaps.

Gross combination weight rating
The gross combination weight ratings listed are only applicable for altitudes up to 1,000 m above
sea level. The maximum weight of the car and trailer must be reduced by approximately 10% for
every further 1,000 m in altitude.

Explanation of tables
®

®

Gearbox abbreviations: MG = manual gearbox, DSG = dual clutch gearbox DSG . MG6 = 6-speed
manual gearbox.

WARNING
Exceeding the maximum permissible weights, gross combination weights, loads,
dimensions, maximum speeds and axle loads can damage the vehicle and cause
accidents and serious injuries.
• Do not exceed the permitted weights, gross combination weights, loads, dimensions
and maximum speeds.
• The actual axle loads must never exceed the maximum permissible axle loads.
• The payload and the distribution of the load in the vehicle have an effect on the driving
response and braking distance of the vehicle. Adjust your speed accordingly.

NOTICE
The payload should be distributed as evenly as possible in the vehicle. When transporting
heavy objects in the luggage compartment, they should be placed either in front of or over
the rear axle in order to minimise the effect on the vehicle's handling.

Vehicle identification data

Fig. 253 vehicle data sticker: example shows a vehicle with engine code CPTA ③. Type plate.

Fig. 254 In the windscreen: vehicle identification number.

Vehicle data sticker
The vehicle data sticker ⇒ Fig. 253

is located inside the front cover of the owner's manual and

in the spare wheel well in the luggage compartment. It contains the following data:

Vehicle identification number (chassis number).
Vehicle type, engine power, gearbox type.

Engine and gearbox code, paint number, interior equipment. In the example, the engine
code is CPTA ⇒ Fig. 253 .
Optional extras, PR numbers.

Type plate
The type plate ⇒ Fig. 253

can be seen on the lower part of the door pillar when the door is

open. Vehicles for certain export countries do not have a type plate.
The type plate contains the following data:

Permit
Gross vehicle weight rating
Gross combination weight rating (vehicle plus trailer ⇒ Trailer towing )
Gross axle weight rating, front
Gross axle weight rating, rear

Vehicle identification number
The vehicle identification number can be read from outside the vehicle through a viewer in the
windscreen ⇒ Fig. 254 (arrow). The viewer is located in the lower corner of the windscreen. The
vehicle identification number is also stamped on the right-hand water drainage channel. The water

⇒ In the

drainage channel is located between the suspension turret and wing. Open the bonnet
engine compartment to gain access to the vehicle identification number.

Dimensions

Fig. 255 Dimensions.

The data in the table apply to the most basic German model.
The specified values can vary due to different tyre and wheel sizes, if additional equipment is fitted,
for different equipment packages, for retrofitted accessories, and for special vehicles. They can also
vary in vehicles that have been manufactured for other countries.

Value

Key to ⇒ Fig. 255 :
Ⓐ
Ⓑ

Ⓒ

Width (from one exterior mirror to the other)

2,099 mm

Width

1,859 mm

Width with widened wheel housing

1,863 mm

Front track

1,589 mm

Rear track

1,580 mm

Ⓓ

Height to the upper edge of the roof at kerb weight

Ⓔ

Maximum height at kerb weight

a)

a)

1,632 mm
-

a)

Ⓕ

Height with open bonnet and kerb weight

Ⓖ

Height with open boot lid and kerb weight

a)

b)

1,868 mm
2,043 mm

c)

Ⓗ
Ⓘ
Ⓙ
Ⓚ

Ground clearance when ready to drive between the
axles

201 mm

Wheelbase

2,677 mm

Length with standard front (from bumper to bumper)

4,486 mm

Length with off-road front (from bumper to bumper)

-

Length with standard front and fitted towing bracket
(when factory-fitted)

-

b)

b)

b)

Value

Key to ⇒ Fig. 255 :
Length with off-road front and fitted towing bracket (when
factory-fitted)
Turning circle diameter

11.5 m

NOTICE
• Take care when driving in car parks with protruding kerbstones or bollards. Objects
that protrude from the ground can damage the bumper and other components when
parking the vehicle.
• Drive carefully through dips in the road, over driveways, ramps, kerbstones and other
objects. Low-lying vehicle components such as the bumper, spoiler and parts of the
running gear, engine or exhaust system could be damaged.

a)

b)

c)

Kerb weight without driver, without payload.
Figures were not available at time of publication.
Kerb weight with driver (75kg) and service fluids.

Technical data - Running gear
Term

Technical data
Under the axles:
Maximum 180 mm.

Ground clearance (four-wheel drive)
Between the axles:
Maximum 201 mm.
Under the axles:
Maximum 180 mm.
Ground clearance (four-wheel drive)
Between the axles:
Maximum 201 mm.
Under the axles:
Maximum 170 mm.
Ground clearance (front-wheel drive)
Between the axles:
Maximum 190 mm.
a)

Angle of rising gradient
Tilt angle

a)

(inclination of the vehicle)
Breakover angle

Maximum of 20 degrees.
Front with standard front:
Maximum of 18 degrees.
Front with off-road front:

Ramp angle
Maximum of 25 degrees.
Rear:
Maximum of 24 degrees.
a)

Figures were not available at time of publication.

Fuel tank capacity
Fuel tank capacity
Petrol and

Four-wheel drive: approx 63 l, of which 8 l reserve.

diesel engines

Front-wheel drive: approx 60 l, of which 8 l reserve.

Petrol engines

®

1.4 l, 4-cylinder TSI (92 kW)
Power output

92 kW at 5,000 – 6,000 rpm

Engine code (EC)

CZCA

Maximum torque

200 Nm at 1,400 - 4,000 rpm

Gearbox

MG6

Maximum speed

km/h

190

Kerb weight

kg

1,490

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,040 - 2,120

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,040

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

970 - 1,130

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up to 12 %

kg

1,600

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up to 8%

kg

1,800

Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

740

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

3,600 - 3,720

®

1.4 l, 4 Cylinder TSI (110 kW)
Power output

110 kW at 5,000 – 6,000 rpm

Engine code

CZDA

Maximum torque

250 Nm at 1,500 - 3,500 rpm
®

Gearbox

DSG 64MOTION

Maximum speed

km/h

198

Kerb weight

kg

1,592

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,110 - 2,180

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,080

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

1,080 - 1,150

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up to 12 %

kg

1,800 - 2,000

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up to 8%

kg

1,900 - 2,100

Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

750

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

4,110 - 4,205

®

1.4-l, 4-cylinder TSI (110 kW)
Power output

110 kW at 5,000 – 6,000 rpm

Engine code (EC)

CZEA

Maximum torque

250 Nm at 1,500 - 3,500 rpm

Gearbox

MG6

®

MG64MOTION

DSG 6

Maximum speed

km/h

202

200

200

Kerb weight

kg

1,490

1,570

1,498

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

1,960 - 2,120

2,140 - 2,170

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,040

1,070

1,060

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

970 - 1,030

1,080 - 1,150

970 - 1,130

kg

1,800

2,000

1,800

kg

1,900 - 2,000

2,100 - 2,200

kg

740

750

Maximum trailer weight, braked,
gradients up to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked,
gradients up to 8%
Maximum trailer weight, unbraked
Maximum permitted gross

kg

combination weight

3,800 - 3,920

1,980 2,140

1,900 2,000
740
3,820 -

4,100 - 4,190

3,940

®

2.0 l, 4-cylinder TSI (132 kW)
Power output

132 kW at 3,940 – 6,000 rpm

Engine code (EC)

CZPA

Maximum torque

320 Nm at 1,500 - 3,940 rpm

Gearbox

MG64MOTION

®

DSG 74MOTION

Maximum speed

km/h

212

210

Kerb weight

kg

1,615

1,645

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,120 - 2,210

2,160 - 2,260

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,120

1,160

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

1,050 - 1,140

1,050 - 1,150

kg

2,000

2,100 - 2,200

kg

2,100 - 2,200

2,100 - 2,200

kg

750

750

kg

4,120 - 4,230

4,260 - 4,765

Maximum trailer weight, braked,
gradients up to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked,
gradients up to 8%
Maximum trailer weight,
unbraked
Maximum permitted gross
combination weight

®

2.0 l, 4-cylinder TSI (162 kW)
Power output

162 kW at 4,500 – 6,200 rpm

Engine code

CHHB

Maximum torque

350 Nm at 1,500 - 4,400 rpm
®

Gearbox

DSG 74MOTION

Maximum speed

km/h

225

Kerb weight

kg

1,669

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,190 - 2,260

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,160

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

1,080 - 1,150

kg

2,100 - 2,500

kg

–

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 8%
Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

750

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

4,430 - 4,780

Diesel engines

®

1.6 l, 4 Cylinder TDI (85 kW)
85 kW at 2,900 – 4,000 rpm with diesel

Power output

particulate filter

Engine code

DGDB

Maximum torque

280 Nm at 1,700 - 2,900 rpm

Gearbox

MG6

Maximum speed

km/h

185

Kerb weight

kg

1,570

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,020 - 2,180

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,110

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

970 - 1,130

kg

1,800

kg

2,000

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 8%
Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

750

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

3,855 - 3,980

®

2.0 l, 4-cylinder TDI (85 kW)

Power output

85 kW at 2,750 – 4,500 rpm with diesel
particulate filter

Engine code

DFGC

Maximum torque

320 Nm at 1,700 - 2,500 rpm

Gearbox

MG6

Maximum speed

km/h

Kerb weight

kg

1,574

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,030 - 2,190

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,110

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

970 - 1,130

kg

1,800

kg

2,000

Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

750

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

3,865 - 3,990

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 8%

185

®

2.0 l, 4-cylinder TDI (110 kW)
110 kW at 3,500 – 4,000 rpm with diesel particulate

Power output

filter

Engine code

DFGA

Maximum torque

340 Nm at 1,750 - 3,000 rpm

Gearbox

MG6

Maximum speed

km/h

Kerb weight

kg

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

Maximum trailer weight, braked,
gradients up to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked,
gradients up to 8%
Maximum trailer weight, unbraked
Maximum permitted gross combination
weight

204
1,574

201
1,665 1,685

DSG 7
4MOTION

202

200

1,615

1,700

2,180 -

2,070 -

2,220 -

2,200

2,310

2,230

2,330

1,150

1,190
1,080 -

1,120

1,150 1,170

970 -

1,080 -

970 -

1,130

1,190

1,130

2,000

2,000 -

2,000

2,500

2,100 -

2,100 -

2,100 -

2,200

2,200

2,200

kg
kg

®

DSG 7

2,040 -

kg

kg

®

MG6
4MOTION

1,190
2,200 2,500
–

750

750

750

750

4,080 -

4,180 -

4,150 -

4,420 -

4,210

4,810

4,230

4,830

®

2.0 l, 4-cylinder TDI (140 kW)
140 kW at 3,500 – 4,000 rpm with diesel

Power output

particulate filter

Engine code (EC)

DFHA

Maximum torque

400 Nm at 1,900 - 3,300 rpm
®

Gearbox

DSG 7 4MOTION

Maximum speed

km/h

212

Kerb weight

kg

1,735

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,230 - 2,340

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,200

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

1,120 - 1,190

kg

2,200 - 2,500

kg

–

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 8%
Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

750

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

4,460 - 4,825

®

2.0 l, 4 Cylinder TDI (176 kW)
Power output

176 kW at 4,000 rpm with diesel particulate filter

Engine code

CUAA

Maximum torque

500 Nm at 1,750 - 2,500 rpm
®

Gearbox

DSG 7 4MOTION

Maximum speed

km/h

230

Kerb weight

kg

1,810

Gross vehicle weight rating

kg

2,350 - 2,360

Gross axle weight rating, front

kg

1,220

Gross axle weight rating, rear

kg

1,180 - 1,190

kg

2,300 - 2,500

kg

–

Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 12 %
Maximum trailer weight, braked, gradients up
to 8%
Maximum trailer weight, unbraked

kg

750

Maximum permitted gross combination weight

kg

4,680 - 4,850

Abbreviations
Abbreviation Definition
rpm

Revolutions per minute – engine speed.

ABS

Anti-lock brake system.

AFS

Cornering lighting.

AM

Medium wave (amplitude modulation).

App

Application.

TCS

Traction control system.

AUX

Auxiliary audio input.

CO2

Carbon dioxide.

DCC

Adaptive chassis control.

DIN

German Standards Authority.

®

DSG 6
®

®

Automatic 6-speed DSG dual clutch gearbox.
®

DSG 7

Automatic 7-speed DSG dual clutch gearbox.

EDL

Electronic differential lock.

EN

European standard.

ESC

Electronic Stability Control.

ETC

Electronic toll collection system.

g/km

Carbon dioxide emissions in grams per kilometre.

CCS

Cruise Control System.

IT

Information technology.

kN

Kilonewton, pulling power.

kPa

Kilopascal, value for tyre pressure.

kW

Kilowatt, indication of engine power.

LED

Light-emitting diode.

MFD

Multifunction display.

EC

Engine code.

Nm

Newton metres, unit of engine torque.

OBD

On-board diagnosis.

hp

The approximate equivalent of brake horse power, formerly used to denote
engine power.

psi

Pound per square inch, value for the tyre inflation pressure.

RON

Research Octane Number, indication of the knock resistance of petrol.

SCR

Technology for selective catalytic reduction of nitrogen oxides

MG6

6-speed manual gearbox.

SIM

Subscriber identity module.

TDI

®

Diesel engine with direct injection and turbocharging (turbocharged direct or
diesel injection).

TSI

®

XDL

Twin-charged stratified injection.
Extension of the electronic differential lock.

Volkswagen AG works continuously to develop and improve its vehicles. Please understand that we
must therefore reserve the right to alter any part of the vehicle and its equipment or technical
specifications at any time. The data provided concerning scope of delivery, appearance,
performance, dimensions, weights, fuel consumption, standards and vehicle functions are all
correct at the time of going to print. Some of the equipment described might not yet be available in
a particular vehicle (information can be provided by your local Volkswagen dealership), and some
equipment may not be available in certain countries. The vehicle illustrated on the cover may have

certain items of optional equipment which are only available at extra cost, or which are only
available in certain markets. Your Volkswagen dealership will be able to inform you about variations
in different countries. Subject to alteration and amendment. No legal commitment may be inferred
from the information, illustrations or descriptions in this manual.
No part of this manual may be reprinted, reproduced or translated without the written permission of
Volkswagen AG.
All rights under the laws of copyright are expressly reserved by Volkswagen AG. Subject to
alteration and amendment.
Printed in Germany.
© Volkswagen AG 2017
This paper was bleached without the use of chlorine.

